ALCOHOL, DRUG ADDICTION AND MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES BOARD OF CUYAHOGA COUNTY
PLANNING & OVERSIGHT (P&O) COMMITTEE MINUTES
JUNE 12, 2019
Committee Members Present: Eugenia Kirkland, LSW, MSSA, CDCA, J. Robert Fowler, Ph.D., Rev. Benjamin F.
Gohlstin, Sr., Katie Kern-Pilch, MA, ATR-BC / Other Board members: Gwendolyn Howard, MSSA
Absent: Reginald C. Blue, Ph.D., Gregory X. Boehm, M.D., Elsie Caraballo, Mary M. Step, Ph.D.
Board Staff Present: Scott Osiecki, Chief Executive Officer, Carole Ballard, Curtis Couch, Tami Fischer, Cheryl
Fratalonie, Felicia Harrison, Myra Henderson, Leslie Koblentz, Carol Krajewski, Linda Lamp, Lindsey McMillion, Beth
Pfohl, Tom Williams, Maggie Tolbert, Linda Torbert, Beth Zietlow-DeJesus
1.

Call to Order: Katie Kern-Pilch, P&O Committee Vice Chair, called the meeting to order at 4:00 p.m.

2. Presentation: Catholic Charities Employment Services
Myra Henderson, Adult Behavioral Health Specialist, introduced Autumn Winfield, Director of the St. Philip Neri Family
Center, and Angelique Shy, Program Director of Employment and Training, who shared that Catholic Charities
Comprehensive Employment Services (CES) has been an agency partner for over 5 years. CES has provided services to
the mental health, behavioral health and substance abuse community as well as those who have been released from
incarceration during this time period. The mission is to help individuals strengthen their capacity to secure employment,
re-enter the workforce and remain employed. CES also integrates Supportive Employment within the treatment process.
The individual employment plan assists individuals in meeting their rehabilitation goals to function successfully in
competitive employment.
Services include vocational preparation activities, employment and post-employment support. It was noted that over 1800
persons were assessed through the employment program and over 800 individuals have been placed in competitive full
and part-time employment opportunities. The average earning wage is $11.75. The Employment and Training Service
location is 7911 East 82nd Street. Sixty-five percent of clients remained employed after 30 days and are monitored for 180
days. (Copies of handouts are attached to the original minutes in the Executive Unit.)
3. Collaboration
Scott Osiecki, CEO, was pleased to introduce the Board’s new Director of Programs, Larry Smith, who will be working with
Ms. Tolbert and covering the areas of Children & Adult programs in addition to the Housing area. Mr. Smith is scheduled
to start with the ADAMHS Board on Monday, 7/08/19.
Mental Health Jail Liaison Specialist – Mr. Osiecki reported that this position will be funded along with the Cuyahoga
County Common Pleas Mental Health Court and the Cuyahoga County Board of Developmental Disabilities. An individual
has recently been hired. Maggie Tolbert, Assistant Chief Clinical Officer, noted that this person will: help to coordinate
referrals and linkages in the jail, work alongside our jail liaisons and answer to five judges. Regular meetings will be
conducted by the Mental Health Jail Liaison Specialist.
Crisis Intervention in the Jail – Ms. Tolbert briefed committee members on a recent death that occurred at the County Jail.
Jail officials initially reached out to another organization to provide grief counseling; however, as the organization was
unable to comply, Jail officials reached out to the ADAMHS Board for help. Board staff, Lindsey McMillion, Criminal
Justice Specialist, and Mr. Osiecki, were able to connect with FrontLine staff who were able to conduct grief counseling
sessions with inmates and jail staff. Ms. Tolbert noted that this is an example of how the community is turning to the
ADAMHS Board for help regarding urgent concerns and realizing our capacity to respond.
Cleveland Division of Police – Mr. Osiecki noted that the ADAMHS Board and the Cleveland Division of Police (CDP) are
working together to plan/create a support program for police officers. Mr. Osiecki, Ms. Tolbert, and Carole Ballard, Director
of Education & Training, met with CDP representatives to discuss the possible development of grief counseling services
for police officers throughout our County via a Peer Support Program.
Page 1 of 4

 Planning & Oversight Committee Minutes

June 12, 2019

Tentative plans indicate that the ADAMHS Board would provide training for lead officers who would arrange for a trained
Peer Supporter to reach out to the officer needing support. It was noted that CPD is presently writing a grant to help offset
program costs.
Ms. Kern-Pilch thanked those Board staff involved and for their endeavor to develop collaborative relations with other
community partners.
[Eugenia Kirkland arrived.]
4.

Approval of Minutes: The May 8, 2019 minutes were approved as submitted.

5. Workforce Development
Tami Fischer, Chief Administrative Officer, reported that the ADAMHS Board previously identified the need to assess and
strengthen the capacity of the current and future behavioral health workforce as a priority. The goal is to increase retention
of behavioral health staff, reduce staff turnover and expand the available workforce to provide quality services to people
living with mental illness and substance abuse disorders in Cuyahoga County. The consultant recommended for
developing and delineating the implementation of a Strategic Plan for behavioral health workforce development is Jeffrey
Johnson, Attorney at Law Consultant, at a rate of $83.00 per hour for approximately 60 hours per month up to a maximum
of $60,000.00 for the time period of July 1, 2019 – June 30, 2020.
Mr. Johnson noted that he is interested in working on this significant workforce dilemma for the behavioral health
community by utilizing his knowledge of the community we serve and to make an impact on this important matter. He
noted that he recently attended the Board’s Career Fair and spoke with several providers who echoed that workforce
development is a very important issue for their agencies.
Motion to recommend approval of a consulting contract with Jeffrey D. Johnson, Attorney at Law/Consultant, for
the development of implementation of a Strategic Plan for Behavior Health Workforce Development up to a
maximum of $60,000.00 for the time period of July 1, 2019 to June 30, 2020 to the Finance & Operations
Committee. MOTION: E. Kirkland / SECOND: R. Fowler / AYES: R. Fowler, K. Kern-Pilch, E. Kirkland / NAYS: None
Motion passed.
6. Cuyahoga County Board of Developmental Disabilities (CCBDD) Waiver Match
Felicia Harrison, Chief Financial Officer, invited CCBDD Chief Administrative Officer, John Parkowski, to the meeting to
help explain and answer questions regarding the Shared Cost Agreement between the ADAMHS Board and CCBDD. The
Agreement allows the ADAMHS Board to share in the payment of the local Medicaid match for individuals involved with
both systems and who are enrolled on an Individual Option (IO) Waiver. The Shared Cost Agreement for the Medicaid
match payments has been in place for many years, and the current agreement covers July 1, 2014 through June 30,
2019. The IO Waiver allows for the use of Medicaid dollars to cover eligible services for individuals. The local Medicaid
match requirement is approximately 40% of the total cost of services.
Ms. Harrison noted that the CCBDD will submit the service cost provided by both systems and the ADAMHS Board will
reimburse the CCBDD for 50% of the required local Medicaid match.
Motion to recommend approval of a Shared Cost Agreement between the ADAMHS Board and the CCBDD to
cover half of the cost of Medicaid Waiver Match for identified individuals for the period July 1, 2019 through June
30, 2024 in an amount not to exceed $135,000.00 to the Finance & Operations Committee. MOTION: R. Fowler
SECOND: E. Kirkland / AYES: R. Fowler, K. Kern-Pilch, E. Kirkland / NAYS: None / Motion passed.
Mr. Osiecki also mentioned that the ADAMHS Board is considering another program or partnership with a local private
school with respect to student internships with their tuition being paid for their participation and service to the Board as an
intern. Hopefully, additional information will be available to report on in July.
Page 2 of 4

 Planning & Oversight Committee Minutes

June 12, 2019

7. State Opiate Response (SOR) Peer Support Grants
Beth Pfohl, Grants and Evaluation Officer, noted that OhioMHAS has previously received funding from the Substance
Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) as part of the State Opioid Response (SOR) grants to
address Opioid Use Disorder (OUD) nationally. This Peer Support Grant will increase access to peer support for persons
with OUD, in person, through electronic media, to those in recovery housing, and those presenting to law enforcement
quick response teams. Six peer support providers—Ascent, Lifeworks, NORA, Point of Freedom, Thrive and the
Woodrow Project—have been identified to offer recovery support in a variety of traditional and non-traditional settings.
Motion to recommend ratification of accepting the amount of $673,755.00 from OhioMHAS as part of the State
Opiate Response Peer Support opportunity for the time period of May 31, 2019 through September 28, 2019 to the
Finance & Operations Committee. MOTION: E. Kirkland / SECOND: R. Fowler / AYES: R. Fowler, K. Kern-Pilch, E.
Kirkland / NAYS: None / Motion passed.
8. Community Capital Plan Applications
Ms. Tolbert noted that Board staff recommends approval of the ADAMHS Board reaffirming its support for the ADAMHS
Board SFY19/20 Community Capital Plan funding for PROJECT MH-1099 Emerald Alliance XI, a new construction of a 3story building with 71 one-bedroom units and PROJECT MH-1100 Phase IV for the rehabilitation of four (4) scattered site
properties.
Motion to recommend approving ADAMHS Board’s support for SFY19/20 Community Capital Plan Funding for
Project MH-1099 Emerald Alliance XI and for Project MH-1100 Phase IV to the full Board. MOTION: R. Fowler
SECOND: E. Kirkland / AYES: R. Fowler, K. Kern-Pilch, E. Kirkland / NAYS: None
Motion passed.
9.

Cuyahoga County Division of Children & Family Services (CCDCFS) Treatment Foster Care/Kinship Care
Pilot RFP Recommendations

Linda Torbert, Director of Client Rights, explained that the CCDCFS identified a critical need within their system to expand
its current foster care programming to include treatment foster homes, as well as the provision of timely individualized
behavioral health interventions with children/youth stepping down from a residential placement or placed with a
relative/kinship caregiver. As a result, Board staff recommends accepting funds from CCDCFS in order to extend the
contract with Catholic Charities for the Treatment Foster Care/Kinship Care Pilot in the amount of $230,609.00 for the
period July 1, 2019 through June 30, 2020.
Motion to recommend approval of accepting funding from CCDCFS and to extend the ADAMHS Board’s contract
with Catholic Charities for the Treatment Foster Care/Kinship Care Pilot in the amount of $230,609.00 for the time
period of July 1, 2019 through June 30, 2020 to the Finance & Operations Committee. MOTION: R. Fowler
SECOND: E. Kirkland / AYES: R. Fowler, K. Kern-Pilch, E. Kirkland / NAYS: None / Motion passed.
10. Whole Child Matters: Early Childhood Mental Health Services
Ms. Torbert reported that previously the ADAMHS Board was requested to apply to OhioMHAS, on behalf of several
partners, for the Whole Child Matters Early Childhood Mental Health (ECMH) Grant. OhioMHAS has continued funding of
this program for SFY2020, and has awarded funding to the ADAMHS Board in the amount of $441,906.00 for the period
July 1, 2018 through June 30, 2019.
Motion to recommend approval of accepting funding from OhioMHAS in the amount of $441,906.00 for the
provision of intensive clinical and supportive services and to contract with the following agencies: Bellefaire
Jewish Children’s Bureau: $155,972.00; Ohio Guidestone: $168,511.00; and Positive Education Program:
$117,423 for the time period of July 1, 2019 to June 30, 2020 to the Finance & Operations Committee.
MOTION: E. Kirkland / SECOND: R. Fowler / AYES: R. Fowler, K. Kern-Pilch, E. Kirkland / NAYS: None
Motion passed.
Page 3 of 4

 Planning & Oversight Committee Minutes

June 12, 2019

11. Universal Pre-Kindergarten (UPK) Program
Ms. Torbert noted that Board staff recommends the continuation of funding the Universal Pre-Kindergarten (UPK)
Program in the amount of $90,000 for the time frame of August 1, 2019 to July 31, 2020 and to distribute the funding
evenly to the five UPK program partners listed below:
o Achievement Center
o Applewood Centers
o Beech Brook
o OhioGuidestone
o Positive Education Program (PEP)
Funding will help to increase the level of intensity of mental health services for children in UPK sites to increase the rate of
school readiness and make pre-school more affordable to low-income and moderate income families in Cuyahoga
County.
Motion to recommend continuation of funding the Universal Pre-Kindergarten (UPK) Program in the amount of
$90,000.00 for the time period of August 1, 2019 to July 31, 2020 and to distribute the funding evenly to the five
UPK program providers at $18,000.00 each to: Achievement Centers, Applewood Centers, Beech Brook, Ohio
Guidestone, and Positive Education Program to the Finance & Operations Committee. MOTION: R. Fowler
SECOND: E. Kirkland / AYES: R. Fowler, K. Kern-Pilch, E. Kirkland / NAYS: None / Motion passed.
12. Old/New Business - None
There being no further business or audience input, the meeting adjourned at 5:30 p.m.
Submitted by:

Carol Krajewski, Executive Specialist

Approved by:

Katie Kern-Pilch, MA, ATR-BC, Planning & Oversight Committee Vice Chair

Page 4 of 4

 