CWP&G DRAFT 6-8-18
GATEWAY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION OF GREATER CLEVELAND
Minutes of a Meeting of the
Board of Trustees
Held on May 23, 2018
2:30 o'clock p.m.
Offices of
Climaco, Wilcox, Peca & Garofoli Co., L.P.A.
55 Public Square, Suite 1950
Cleveland, Ohio
There being a quorum present, Mr. Carroll called the meeting to order at approximately 2:30
p.m. Board members Matt Carroll and William Reidy were present as was newly appointed
Board member David Ebersole. Also present were Todd Greathouse, Brian Kelly, and Daniella
Nunnally of Gateway, as well as Dennis Wilcox and Scott Simpkins as Gateway’s General
Counsel. Also present was Gateway’s Engineering Consultant David Faller. Present from
Cuyahoga County was intern Gabe Sekeres and for the City of Cleveland Ken Silliman. Present
from the Indians were Jim Folk, Neil Weiss, and Dennis Lehman. Present from the Cavs were
Anthony Bonavita and Beverly Skoar. Present from the media was Courtney Astolfi of
cleveland.com. Present from Stifel Nicolaus was Robert Franz. Present from the public was
William Tarter.
Mr. Carroll opened the meeting and asked for approval of the Minutes of the February 14, 2018
meeting. Upon motion made by Mr. Reidy, and seconded by Mr. Carroll, the Minutes were
unanimously approved 2-0.
Next, Mr. Carroll asked if there was any public comment. There was no public comment.
The Board next heard the Executive Director’s report. Mr. Greathouse welcomed Mr. Ebersole
and introduced him to the Board and other attendees. Mr. Greathouse then asked Mr. Wilcox to
introduce Resolution 2018-2 for approval of the appointment of Mr. Ebersole to serve as the
City’s ex officio member of the Board of Trustees to replace Tracey Nichols for the term
expiring May 31, 2022. Based on the presentation and motion by Mr. Reidy and seconded by
Mr. Carrol, the following Resolution 2018-2 was unanimously approved by the Board:
RESOLUTION NO. 2018-2
REGARDING SEATING OF DAVID EBERSOLE
AS EX OFFICIO MEMBER OF THE BOARD
OF GATEWAY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION OF GREATER CLEVELAND
1

 WHEREAS, Tracey Nichols was previously appointed as a member of the Corporation’s
Board of Trustees as an ex officio member for the City of Cleveland and for the continuation of
the term commencing June 1, 2012; and
WHEREAS, Ms. Nichols subsequently resigned from the Board; and
WHEREAS, the Board has been notified by the Mayor of the City of Cleveland that he
wishes to designate David Ebersole, Interim Director of Economic Development, to serve as the
City’s ex officio member to replace Ms. Nichols for the term commencing immediately and
expiring May 31, 2022; and
WHEREAS, such appointment was confirmed by the Council of the City.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that David Ebersole be and hereby is seated
as a member of the Board of Trustees and as a member of the Corporation as the City’s ex
officio member, such term to commence immediately and to expire May 31, 2022, subject to
reappointment by the Mayor.
****
Next, Mr. Greathouse reported on Arena Major Capital Repair requests and introduced Mr.
Faller. Mr. Faller then discussed the Arena life safety and fire alarm system and noted that the
existing life safety and fire alarm system and much of the equipment is from the initial
installation in 1994 and, although the Arena staff has maintained the equipment well, the
equipment is well past its expected useful life. The project budget for the replacement of the fire
alarm system is $597,026 and Mr. Faller stated that replacement of the fire alarm system now
while the Arena is undergoing significant renovation is appropriate. Mr. Greathouse then noted
that the Cavs will be funding the project pending approval by the County and he then
recommended approval by Gateway. Mr. Carroll then asked if there were any questions and
confirmed that the cost is contingent on replacement this year. Having heard no comments, Mr.
Carroll then noted that Resolution No. 2018-3 was prepared for recommending approval of the
fire alarm and life safety system replacement to the City and County as a Major Capital Repair.
Based on the presentation and motion by Mr. Reidy and seconded by Mr. Ebersole, the following
Resolution 2018-3 was unanimously approved by the Board:
RESOLUTION NO. 2018-3
REGARDING RECOMMENDATION WITH RESPECT TO
REQUEST FOR MAJOR CAPITAL REPAIRS FROM
THE CAVALIERS OPERATING COMPANY, LLC

2

 WHEREAS, Gateway Economic Development Corporation of Greater Cleveland
(“Gateway”) has agreed to provide for Major Capital Repairs as defined in the Lease dated as of
October 12, 2017 (the “Lease”) between Gateway and Cavaliers Operating Company, LLC (the
“Cleveland Cavaliers”); and
WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees (the “Board”) of Gateway has previously notified the
City of Cleveland, Ohio (“City”) and Cuyahoga County (“County”) that Gateway does not have
sufficient funds to pay Major Capital Repairs as defined in the Lease and requested the
respective appointing authorities of Gateway, the City and the County, to consider such funding
of Major Capital Repairs; and
WHEREAS, on May 9, 2012 the Board adopted Resolution No. 2012-1 setting forth its
policies and procedures with respect to Major Capital Repairs (“Policy”); and
WHEREAS, the Cleveland Cavaliers have submitted a request for approval of Major
Capital Repairs to the Arena under the Lease; and
WHEREAS, the Board has reviewed such request and pursuant to the Policy has received
information from its professional consultant recommending approval of such items as noted on
Exhibit A as Major Capital Repairs; and
WHEREAS, the Gateway Board desires to recommend approval of the Major Capital
Repairs request from the Cleveland Cavaliers as further described in Exhibit A attached hereto.
NOW, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Trustees of Gateway, on behalf of Gateway,
finds that the requested Major Capital Repairs from the Cleveland Cavaliers for the Arena,
attached as Exhibit A hereto, are Major Capital Repairs under the Lease and are hereby
recommended for approval.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that this Resolution, including the attached Exhibit A,
constitutes Gateway’s recommendation under the Policy and shall be forwarded to the City and
the County forthwith and Gateway shall continue to provide information to the City and the
County as requested to support this recommendation.
BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that the Board respectfully requests the County or City
make a decision as to this recommendation no later than August, 2018.
Exhibit A
Cleveland Cavaliers Major Capital Requests
•

Life Safety and Fire Alarm System

$
****

3

597,026

 Next, Mr. Greathouse discussed a new Major Capital Repair request for the Ballpark. The
request is for the replacement of the exterior escalators/vertical transportation system and Mr.
Greathouse noted that they have been working with an elevator consultant and Mr. Faller
regarding the request. Mr. Faller then discussed the current situation regarding the four
escalators to the upper concourse at the Ballpark and that the four identified escalators and
components are beyond their useful and serviceable life. The project budget for the replacement
of the vertical transportation system is $2.6 million. Mr. Reidy asked if the current escalator
situation is a potential safety concern and Mr. Faller responded that there is a safety factor to
consider when the systems fail while in use by the public. Mr. Ebersole then inquired about
funding for the project. Mr. Greathouse indicated that funding will come, in part, from savings
realized from other projects and referred the Board to an enclosure from the Board materials.
Referring to the enclosure, Mr. Greathouse did note that even assuming all of the anticipated
savings are realized, there will still be a shortfall of funding in the amount of approximately
$78,085. Mr. Faller then noted that the true cost of the project should be known by July 4, 2018.
Mr. Carroll then asked Mr. Faller to confirm that the current escalators are the original
escalators, which he did. Mr. Carroll then introduced Resolution No. 2018-3 for recommending
approval of the vertical transportation system replacement as a Major Capital Repair. Based on
the presentation and motion of Mr. Ebersole and seconded Mr. Reidy, the following Resolution
2018-4 was unanimously approved by the Board:
RESOLUTION NO. 2018-4
REGARDING RECOMMENDATION WITH RESPECT TO
REQUEST FOR MAJOR CAPITAL REPAIRS FROM
THE CLEVELAND INDIANS BASEBALL
COMPANY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
WHEREAS, Gateway Economic Development Corporation of Greater Cleveland
(“Gateway”) has agreed to provide for Major Capital Repairs as defined in the Lease (the
“Lease”) between Gateway and Cleveland Indians Baseball Company Limited Partnership (the
“Cleveland Indians”); and
WHEREAS, the Board of Gateway has previously notified the City of Cleveland, Ohio
(“City”) and Cuyahoga County (“County”) that Gateway does not have sufficient funds to pay
Major Capital Repairs as defined in the Lease and requested the respective appointing authorities
of Gateway, the City and the County, to consider such funding of Major Capital Repairs; and
WHEREAS, on May 9, 2012 the Board adopted Resolution No. 2012-1 setting forth its
policies and procedures with respect to Major Capital Repairs (“Policy”); and
WHEREAS, the Cleveland Indians have submitted a request for approval of Major
Capital Repairs to the Ballpark under the Lease; and
WHEREAS, the Board has reviewed such request and pursuant to the Policy has received
information from its professional consultant recommending approval of such items as Major
Capital Repairs; and
4

 WHEREAS, the Gateway Board desires to recommend approval of the Major Capital
Repairs request from the Cleveland Indians as further described in Exhibit A attached hereto.
NOW, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Trustees of Gateway, on behalf of Gateway,
finds that the requested Major Capital Repairs from the Cleveland Indians for the Ballpark,
attached as Exhibit A hereto, are Major Capital Repairs under the Lease and are hereby
recommended for approval.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that this Resolution, including the attached Exhibit A,
constitutes Gateway’s recommendation under the Policy and shall be forwarded to the City and
the County forthwith and Gateway shall continue to provide information to the City and the
County as requested to support this recommendation.
BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that the Board respectfully requests the County or City
make a decision as to this recommendation no later than August 31, 2018.

Exhibit A
Cleveland Indians Major Capital Requests
•

Exterior Escalators Vertical Transportation System

$

2,600,000

****
Mr. Greathouse then introduced Mr. Weiss of the Cleveland Indians to discuss two Major Capital
Repair projects that the Indians will be requesting in the future. The first project discussed by
Mr. Weiss is the renovation of the Ballpark office building which was built in 1993 and,
although initially housed approximately 80 staff, now houses approximately 220 staff. Mr.
Weiss confirmed that the first phase of the project will be to renovate the first floor of the office
building to accommodate today’s needs, such as providing more office space and less space
devoted to street-level ticket sales. Mr. Weiss then discussed the second Major Capital Repair
project which will be a renovation of the club level at the Ballpark. Mr. Weiss noted that the
club level has not seen significant change since it was first built and is not well-designed for nongame events. Moreover, Mr. Weis stated that the kitchen equipment is outdated and because of
the current design, the club facility does not allow viewing of the Ballpark field during games.
Mr. Ebersole asked how the Indians envision the remaining office space after the first floor
renovations and Mr. Weiss responded that the goal is to renovate remaining floors to ultimately
accommodate 230/240 staff. Mr. Carroll asked if there were any further questions and hearing
none, Mr. Greathouse resumed with his Major Capital Repairs update.
Mr. Greathouse provided an update regarding Arena roof repairs and HVAC replacement with
the anticipation that the project costs spent are approximately $19.6 million, well below the $27
million budgeted. Mr. Greathouse also noted that the hot water tanks have been delivered to the
5

 Arena through the Arena roof and they are waiting until August to complete the hot water tank
replacement project.
Mr. Greathouse then noted as it relates to the Transformation Project that the foundations have
been poured and the skylight canopy has been demolished and offices are currently being
demolished. They are working in cooperation with the contractor with the HVAC project. Mr.
Carroll asked if there have been any traffic issues and Mr. Bonavita of the Cavs stated so far
thing have been working relatively smoothly and that the City, police and ODOT have all been
working cooperatively.
Ms. Nunnally then gave a brief update on the inclusion efforts and Mr. Greathouse noted the
team effort at inclusion being performed by the City, the contractor, Mr. Bonavita and the
additional reporting provided.
Next, the financial reports were given by Brian Kelly. He first reviewed the operating account
for the month ended April 30, 2018 and reported a cash beginning balance of $330,294, total
receipts of $287,909, total disbursements of $339,218 for a month-end balance of $278,985. He
then reviewed the Ballpark Capital account for April which had a beginning balance of $97,793,
receipts of $300,000, capital disbursements of $363,841 for an ending balance of $33,953.
He then reviewed the projections from May 1st through July 31st. First, the current account
balance is $278,985, anticipated revenues are $1,116,470, for estimated money before
disbursements of $1,395,455. Operating disbursements are anticipated to be $1,272,498, for an
estimated balance by July 31st of $122,957.
Mr. Kelly then reviewed the current status of property taxes and noted that the Indians have paid
the property taxes and the Cavs will have property taxes in the amounts of $216,779 and $17,764
yet to be paid.
Mr. Kelly then provided a Quicken Loans Arena major capital spreadsheet. Mr. Kelly reported
the total amount approved thus far equals $26,384,721, while the total paid equals $23,133,480.
He then discussed the transformation project and noted the cumulative amount submitted is
$20,614,410. The total amount for the Transformation is $140,955,000. After the $140,955,000
amount, the Cavs self-fund the balance of the project costs.
He then provided a Progressive Field major capital account spreadsheet. The total Major Capital
amount approved equals $37,415,629, while the total paid equals $34,492,363.
Next, Mr. Carroll asked again if there is any public comment. The Board heard public comment
from William Tarter. He inquired about the status of funding for the Transformation Project and
Mr. Greathouse confirmed that approximately $19 million has been submitted for approval and
the Cavs are currently self-funding amounts pending County payment.
Having completed the Agenda business, Mr. Carroll noted that the next meeting is scheduled for
August 8, 2018.

6

 Upon motion made by Mr. Carroll, seconded by Mr. Reidy, the Board adjourned the meeting at
approximately 3:17 p.m.

APPROVED:

Secretary-Treasurer

7

 