THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES

DATE: Wednesday, September 12, 2018
TIME: 2:00 to 4:00 pm.
PLACE: MetroHealth Medical Center

K107, Business Services Building

COMMITTEE Dr. Silvers

TRUSTEES:

ADDITIONAL Ms. Dee, Ms. Whiting

TRUSTEES:

STAFF: A. Boutros, MD, D. Fiser, G. Himes, M. Phillips, C. Richmond, C. Forino Wahl
GUESTS: R. Barre, J. Mylen (KPMG), K. Allen, L. Kalic, I. Croy, (RSM), L. Abernethy 

S. Draxler (via phone RSM)

Dr. Silvers called the meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee to order at 2:05 pm. Please note
that minutes are written to conform to the printed agenda and are not necessarily in the order of
discussion.

I.

II.

The minutes of the regular Audit and Compliance Committee meeting held on June 13, 2018 were
approved as presented.

INFORMATION ITEMS

Dr. Silvers introduced Lori Kalic, Lead Audit Partner who opened the meeting by
introducing the audit engagement team. Ms. Kalic and Katy Allen, Audit Manager, provided an
overview of the scope of audit services and highlighted the audit and attestation services, which
included what MetroHealth can expect in the 2018 ?nancial statement audit, the MetroI-Iealth
Foundation ?nancial statements? and the Select Assurance Captive, LLC ?nancial statements. Ms.
Kalic summarized the auditor?s responsibilities under US Generally Accepted Auditing Standards,
the risk?based audit approach and the risk assessment process. Ms. Armul, presented the timeline
of the audit engagement and the anticipated completion dates of all audit procedures were reviewed
with the Committee. Ms. Armul led discussion around internal controls over financial reporting.

Linda Abernethy, Government Industry Partner Report Quality Control Reviewer,
participated by phone and led the discussion around GASB Statement No. 75 Accounting and
Financial Reporting for Postemployment Bene?ts Other Than Pensions which will be implemented
in 2018. Management is currently assessing the impact from GASB 75, which is like GASB 68, in
that it is recorded only at year-end and has no cash impact to the system. Ms. Abernethy also
presented GASB Statement N0. 87 Leases and GASB Statement No. 89 Accounting for Interest
Costs Incurred before the End of a Construction Period. Both pronouncements will be implemented
in Fiscal year 2020 and could have a signi?cant impact on the System?s ?nancial statements.

Craig Richmond, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Of?cer introduced John Croy, RSM
Senior Director and National Leader of Construction Advisory Services, who provided an update

Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting Minutes
September 12, 2018
Page 2 of 3

on the construction cost review services currently being performed by RSM. Mr. Croy indicated
that the Critical Care Pavilion project close out review was conducted with no exceptions. In
addition, the Transformation Project construction cost review activities continue to include 
reviews of the third parties participating in the project. Mr. Croy?s procedures include reviewing
the initial Guaranteed Maximum Price (GMP) contract to validate the GMP has adequate
supporting documentation and costs are consistent with the agreement. Regarding the parking
garage project, RSM was obtaining additional documentation from the contractors based on their
review and will begin planning the close-out review. Also, a prepared document describing 
involvement in reviewing change orders and contingencies will be documented within e-builder and
included in the appropriate procedures.

Cheryl Forino Wahl, Senior Vice President, Chief Ethics and Compliance Of?cer provided an
update on the 2018 compliance program activities and shared that forty-five percent of the annual
work plan has been completed. Ms. Wahl shared that the new Code of Conduct, his is Who We
Are, has been published and distributed to all employees through live training. There are two
hundred training sessions scheduled at all of the MetroHealth locations which will be completed by
the end of October. The Board of Trustees will also complete compliance training which will cover
the Board?s responsibilities regarding oversight of the compliance program, and overview of the
MetroHealth Compliance Program and review of the Code of Conduct key points. Ms. Wahl also
mentioned the Ethics and Compliance Department?s oversight of the con?ict of interest (COI)
disclosure process has expanded to include full management throughout the organization as well as
the review and management of identi?ed con?icts. A new Board policy on COI was reviewed by
the Legal and Government Relations Committee and will be considered by the full board for
approval. Ms. Wahl also reviewed the 2018 Ethics and Compliance goals which covers four main
areas: building an ethical culture through the new Code and corresponding training, updating the
Conflict of Interest disclosure progress across the system, improving privacy awareness and
accountability, and optimizing 340B program oversight.

Jim Mylen, Partner with KPMG Advisory Services, serves as MetroHealth?s Director of Internal
Audit. Mr. Mylen introduced Robin Barre KPMG, Director, who is part of the Internal Audit team.
Mr. Mylen and Ms. Barre provided an update of the 2018 Internal Audit Plan and an overview of
the accomplishments and goals for the third quarter. Mr. Mylen stated the goals established at the
beginning of 2018 which included: continuous auditing and analytics, integrated assurance, partner
with management to manage risk, standardize documentation, and communication. Ms. Barre
stated internal audit recently launched their function home page on the MeuoHealth Information
Village (MIV) which includes team member contact information, charter, internal audit process and
relevant information about the function. Mr. Mylen discussed that there were eleven audits in
process and internal audit will conduct the remaining audits by year-end based on the internal audit
plan. In addition, Mr. Mylen stated the control testing of the ?nancial reporting processes were
accelerated and will be completed by October 31 in advance of the external audit interim
procedures planned for November. Lastly, Mr. Mylen discussed the planning process for the 2019
Internal Audit program has started, risk assessment interviews will be performed in the fourth
quarter and a preliminary internal audit plan will be developed and presented in December.

Mr. Richmond introduced David Fiser, Vice President, Chief Information Of?cer, who provided 3
Cyber Security Program update focused on the ongoing importance of a cyber security program
and culture. Mr. Fiser stated the most recent email phishing tests show a decrease in the number of
failed users. The prior test had a seventeen percent failure, but the most recent tests had a two
percent failure percent rate. Migration will be taking place in the fourth quarter of 2018 to a new
phishing solution called Phishme. The Phishme solution will provide for testing of all
employees, automate the reporting by employees of su5picious emails, and provide additional
training videos to provide greater awareness. Mr. Fiser discussed that MetroHealth continues to

Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting Minutes
September 12, 2018
Page 3 of 3



IV.

conduct third party penetration testing and other security assessments, various tests are scheduled
for OctoberfNovember of 2018. In addition, Mr. Fiser shared that KPMG was engaged to perform
a HIPAA Risk and Cyber Program Risk Assessment with the objective to further identify and
mitigate risks and continue to strengthen the control environment. Lastly, Mr. iser also provided
an IT update on Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Operations. Business continuity
testing was successfully completed on the Epic Enterprise application fail over testing in August.
MetroHealth is currently evaluating locations and capacity requirements for a new Disaster
Recovery site, as it will need to vacate its current site by December of 2019.

A motion was made, seconded and passed to move the Committee into Executive Session to discuss
trade secrets and litigation matters. The Committee returned to regular session at 4:04 pm.

NON-CONSENT ITEMS

A. No items at this time

CONSENT ITEMS

A. No items at this time

There being no further business to bring before the Committee, the meeting was adjourned at 4:05 pm.

Respectfully submitted,

Cra 



ichmond

Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Of?cer

