BOARD OF TRUSTEES
The MetroHealth System
Date:

March 27, 2019

Time:

8:00 a.m.

Place:

The MetroHealth System Board Room

Present:

Ms. Anderson, Ms. Dee (via telephone), Mr. Hairston, Mr. Hurwitz, Mr. McDonald,
Mr. Monnolly, Dr. Silvers, Ms. Whiting

Staff:

Dr. Boutros, Dr. Boulanger, Ms. Brown, Mr. Himes, Mr. Jones, Ms. Kline, Mr. Phillips, Ms.
Platten, Mr. Stern, Dr. Werner

Guests:

Dr. Patricia Thomas, Vice Dean of Medical Education, Case Western Reserve University
School of Medicine

MINUTES OF MEETING
The meeting was called to order by Mr. McDonald at 8:00 a.m.
(The minutes are written in a format conforming to the printed meeting agenda for the convenience of
correlation, recognizing that some of the items were discussed out of sequence.)
1.

Minutes
The Board approved the Minutes of the Regular Meeting of January 23, 2019.
RESOLUTION 19264.

2.

Welcome to New Trustee: John M. Hairston, Jr., New Trustee of The MetroHealth
System Board of Trustees
The Board approved the New Trustee for The MetroHealth System Board of Trustees.
RESOLUTION 19265.

3.

Consent Agenda
Prior to entertaining a motion to approve the Consent Agenda, Mr. Monnolly reviewed with the
Board the following changes: E.1.—A change was made in the resolution concerning Turner
Construction Company that there is no contaminated soil but removing unsuitable soil and stating
additional costs are within the original budget; and E.6.—A change in the amount to $175,000
from $360,000 in the resolution concerning Intertek-Professional Services Industries, Inc. was
made, changing the amount of the agreement to $201,554. After further discussion, the Chair
entertained a motion to approve the amended Consent Agenda.
A.

Audit and Compliance Committee
1.

The Board unanimously approved and accepted the 2018 Audit Report prepared
by RSM for the System’s annual financial statements for the year ended
December 31, 2018. RESOLUTION 19266.

 2.

The Board unanimously approved the continued on-going engagement of
Kaufman Hall as the System’s Financial Advisor for Transformation, for the
purpose of providing financial planning, advice and guidance related to
Transformation throughout 2019, for total aggregate fees not to exceed
$370,000 plus reasonable out-of-pocket expenses, to be paid out of general
operating funds. RESOLUTION 19267.

3.

The Board unanimously approved the purchase of certain capital equipment as
listed in Exhibit A, for costs not to exceed the amounts shown, to be paid out of
available capital funds. RESOLUTION 19268.

4.

The Board unanimously approved certain core terms for a three-year Collective
Bargaining Agreement between MetroHealth and AFSCME Local 3360, Ohio
Council 8 for the purpose of finalizing negotiations and executing contract
documents. RESOLUTION 19269.

5.

The Board unanimously approved the achievements for the System’s 2018
performance results as compared to the 2018 Plan Measures and Goals
previously adopted by the Board for the Performance Based Variable
Compensation Program, as verified by the final 2018 Net Operating Income
through the finalization of the System’s audited financial statements.
RESOLUTION 19270.

6.

The Board unanimously approved the continued on-going engagement of Upshur
Street Consulting as consultants for the System’s Medicaid and 340B government
relations activities for the period between April 2019 – April 2021 for costs not to
exceed an additional $240,000, for a total amount of fees not to exceed
$490,000, plus reasonable out-of-pocket expenses, to be paid out of general
operating funds. RESOLUTION 19271.

7.

The Board unanimously authorized and approved a commitment of $1,000,000,
to be paid in $200,000 yearly installments for the next five years to assist in the
establishment of a Cuyahoga County Mental Health Diversion Facility, to be paid
from general operating funds. RESOLUTION 19272.

B.

Community Engagement Committee – No Meeting

C.

Diversity Committee – None

D.

Executive Committee – No Meeting

E.

Facilities and Space Committee
1.

The Board unanimously approved the amendment of the agreement with Turner
Construction Company to provide additional construction services to support the
View Road Improvements and additional trade resources required for the Project.
The total fees for this additional scope of work shall not exceed $4,196,285 for a
total amended fee amount not to exceed $135,838,300 to be paid out of capital
funds previously approved through Board Resolutions 19088. RESOLUTION 19273.

2.

The Board unanimously approved the amendment of the agreement with HGA
Architects and Engineers, LLC to provide additional architectural and engineering
services for the Project. The total fees for this additional work shall not exceed
$1,060,000, for a total amended fee amount not to exceed $32,969,453 to be
paid out of capital funds previously approved through Board Resolution 19088.
RESOLUTION 19274.
2

 3.

The Board unanimously approved certain Pre-Authorized Professionals consistent
with System Policy GEN-88, for services to be provided during the period of
April 1, 2019, through April 30, 2020, with aggregate costs not to exceed
$50,000 per assigned project per Professional. The fees for the Pre-Authorized
Professionals will be paid out of available and authorized operating and capital
funds as needed. RESOLUTION 19275.

4.

The Board unanimously approved a sublease for ambulance garage space.
RESOLUTION 19276.

5.

The Board unanimously approved a lease for space in Cleveland.
RESOLUTION 19277.

6.

The Board unanimously approved the amendment of the agreement with
Intertek-Professional Services Industries, Inc. to provide additional geotechnical
engineering consultant services to support the Campus Transformation Project.
The total fees for this additional scope of work shall not exceed $175,000 for a
total amended fee amount not to exceed $201,554 to be paid out of capital funds
previously approved through Board Resolution 19088. RESOLUTION 19278.

F.

Finance Committee – No Meeting

G.

Legal and Government Relations Committee - None

H.

Nominating Committee – No Meeting

I.

Patient Experience Committee – None

J.

Quality and Safety Committee
1.

4.

The Board unanimously approved the observance of National Nurses Week,
May 6, 2019, through May 10, 2019, for the purpose of supporting the goals and
ideals of National Nurses Week, acknowledge the importance of nurses and their
significant contribution to the System and the patients for whom they care, and
engage in appropriate recognition, ceremonies, activities, and programs.
RESOLUTION 19279.

President and CEO’s Report
Dr. Boutros began his report by stating that MetroHealth received final approval from the City of
Cleveland to erect the new hospital, noting the ground breaking will be held on April 15, 2019, a
significant number of guests have been invited, and hard hats and shovels will be provided but
no dirt will be thrown. MetroHealth was the first major organization in this region to increase our
employees’ base minimum wage to $15 an hour, noting the Union contract was negotiated at the
highest ratification rate of a MetroHealth contract. Union negotiations provided changes to
MetroHealth’s medical coverage beginning 2020; there will be no co-pays, deductibles or coinsurance for SkyCare requiring payment by any employee, be it Union or non-Union employees
or their family members, having medical services provided by MetroHealth with the exception of
pharmaceutical medication, or as provided by law. In making ongoing efforts to improve
correctional health care, we have a signed agreement with the County Executive with respect to
the correctional facility which is contingent upon County Council’s approval. He noted that 400
candidates have been reviewed for all correctional positions, 200 candidates have been
determined to qualify, and 40 to 60 interviews for positions have been completed. Cleveland
Heights and University Heights are now being provided school health services by MetroHealth.
Lastly, celebrations are being held for two special volunteers; Sally Jameson celebrated her 100th
3

 birthday in January with a big party and Dennis Kapral is now celebrating his 40th year of
volunteering at MetroHealth.
5.

Nursing/Magnet Report – Melissa Kline, Chief Nursing Officer
Ms. Kline shared great news with the Board that MetroHealth’s Neonatal Intensive Care Unit
(NICU) received the gold-level Beacon Award from the American Association of Critical-Care
Nurses (AACN); this award focuses on caregivers who successfully improve patient outcomes and
align practices with the AACN six Healthy Work Environment Standards. Two executives from
The Joint Commission (Mark Pelletier, Chief Operating Officer, and Ana Pujols McKee, Chief
Medical Officer) visited MetroHealth during Patient Safety Week; Ms. Kline and Ms. Hannu
escorted Mr. Pelletier on a visit to 10 different inpatient units and recognized staff for their hard
work in reducing patient falls ranging from 31% to 87% in certain units in 2018, as described in
the President’s Report.

6.

Medical Staff
A.

Report of Medical Staff President – Dr. Sandra Werner
Dr. Werner began her report by stating at the Medical Staff meeting in January 2019 a
Great Catch Safety Award and a signed baseball were presented to Gail Schneider, a RNClinical Nurse, Brenda Thurman, a Medical Team Assistant, and Carmen Baeza, a Patient
Services Representative, for saving a family member’s life by recognizing a person in the
waiting room who was blue, not breathing and might be a possible overdose, retrieved
help, administered Narcan to the person, and the individual was responsive and taken to
the Emergency Department. Doctors Day is Saturday, March 30, 2019, and people can
recognize their favorite doctor; an ad has been purchased that will be printed on Sunday,
March 31, 2019. MetroHealth’s Advanced Practice Providers will be recognized in April as
part of MetroHealth Provider Day as they are part of the Medical Staff. The Medical Staff
meetings will be held quarterly at an off-site location in an effort to attract attendance
from all MetroHealth locations, the first meeting to be held in April 2019 with the focus
being wellness and engagement.
Dr. Werner recognized several members of the Medical Staff: Dr. Joan Papp, Medical
Director of the Office of Opioid Safety, was awarded a $265,000 grant to expand access
to medication assisted treatment in Cuyahoga County’s Correctional Center; Dr. Terry
Stancin received the Joseph D. Matarazzo Award for Distinguished Contributions to
Psychology from the Association of Psychologists in Academic Health Centers; Robert
Grabowski, Julie Medas, Cheryl Bradas, and Rosanne Radziewicz were awarded grants
from The MetroHealth System Advanced Practice Provider Council to benefit patients and
the community; and Ronnie Fass, Director of Gastroenterology, along with his colleagues
and fellows published the
that can be
Pocket Handbook of Esophageal Disorders
purchased on Amazon. At the request of Dr. Werner, Mr. McDonald made a motion and
the Board unanimously approved the Medical Staff Appointments, Actions and
Reappointments for January and February 2019, as well as the Medical Executive
Committee Minutes of January 11, 2019, and February 8, 2019.
Dr. Boutros added to the report that the training of MetroHealth’s Public Safety and
security forces were able to reverse adverse health complications of 19 visitors with
Narcan in 2018.

B.

Approval of Medical Staff Providers Appointments, Actions and Reappointments
– January/February/March 2019
1. The Board unanimously approved the Medical Staff Providers Appointments, Actions
and Reappointments for January/February/March 2019. RESOLUTION 19280.
4

 C.

Medical Executive Committee Minutes – January 11, 2019, and February 8, 2019

D.

Report of Case Western Reserve University (CWRU), School of Medicine –
Dr. Patricia Thomas
Dr. Thomas reported that the CWRU School of Medicine had 198 students enter in the
match successfully. She stated 44 students will remain in Ohio; six will be completing
their PGY1 at MetroHealth, of which five will be in Internal Medicine and one in Family
Medicine. CWRU School of Medicine has three students participating in the Urban Health
Initiative that will begin at MetroHealth in July; Dr. Michael Raddock, a physician from
Family Medicine, will be the Director of the program training students in completing
urban health research projects in their core clerkship year alongside other faculty
members. The School of Medicine was awarded a grant from the Department of Mental
Health after partnering with NEOMED to improve education for medical students in seven
medical schools in Ohio; Dr. Charles Emerman, Chair of Emergency Medicine, was
instrumental in obtaining this grant. The American Medical Association (AMA) invited the
School of Medicine to submit a grant application on the Reimagining Residency initiative;
Dr. James Pile, Residency Program Director of Hospital Medicine, will lead the pilot
program on behalf of MetroHealth in the grant submission using health system metrics at
the resident level to identify when residents are competent in managing populations in
health system issues such as quality and safety issues among others.

7.

Audit and Compliance Committee
A.

Report of Committee Chairperson Silvers
Dr. Silvers began his report with a discussion involving the System’s application to
become one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies; Dr. Boutros stated the first year the
application is submitted, the 2019 data is utilized to form a comparison of other
organizations to determine where improvement is necessary, and our goal is to become
one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies in 2020. Cheryl Forino Wahl reviewed a
detailed Compliance Plan, noting in the first quarter 2019 MetroHealth has completed 6%
of the World’s Most Ethical goals and there are 21% in progress. Goals in 2019 include
expanding the risk assessment process, implementing a strategic communication plan,
measuring compliance using data and metrics, and applying for the World’s Most Ethical
Company. Ms. Wahl’s compliance report in terms of data indicates that the MetroHealth
Ethics Line (MEL) is receiving approximately 5.6 calls per 1,000 employees to express
concerns that are being reviewed by the HIPAA Corrective Action Committee. Mr. Phillips
responded in Ms. Wahl’s absence that there is an added feature in MEL where an
individual could submit a report anonymously and then sign in to determine whether the
question or complaint was addressed.
An extensive 2018 External Audit report was given by Lori Kalic and Katie Allen from RSM
and the System received a clean audit report. The RSM representatives then met with
the Committee without management present and advised that they were comfortable
with the efforts of management. Dr. Boutros stated that the External Audit of The
MetroHealth Foundation found similar results.
Jim Mylen from KPMG presented an Internal Audit report stating that there had been 15
Internal Audits for 2019 and identified six areas seen as being primary risk categories:
financial and operational information, technology, quality, human resources, and
compliance, noting that there is coordination with Ethics and Compliance with respect to
these matters. The Committee was comfortable with the Internal Audit report and
discussion.
5

 A CyberSecurity update was given by David Fiser, Chief Information Officer, indicating
testing is ongoing throughout MetroHealth concerning phishing and to determine how
employees respond to emails, noting results are satisfactory but the goal is ultimately
zero mistakes. Internet Technology is moving to a multi-factor authentication program
and a five-year technology plan. MetroHealth’s disaster recovery operation is moving
from Elyria to Involta in Akron. Dr. Boutros and several senior executives met with the
FBI National and CyberSecurity team and are utilizing the Security Operations Center
(SOC) located in Cleveland for the entire nation to perform background and security
checks for individuals.
B.

Non-Consent Agenda
1. Action Items - None
2. Information Items
a. Fiscal Year 2018 Audit Report
b. 2019 Compliance Update
c. 2019 Internal Audit Update
d. Cyber Security & IT Update

8.

Community Engagement Committee – No Meeting

9.

Diversity Committee
A.

Report of Committee Chairperson
Ms. Whiting began her report with an update received concerning the 2019 key area
focus, the primary focus being professional development of personnel by assessing
where diverse individuals are as leaders and skills needed to advance in the organization.
The 2019 Enterprise Diversity Scorecard containing approximately 21 metrics were
discussed. Ms. Anderson and Ms. Whiting met with Alan Nevel, Chief Diversity and
Human Resources Officer and developed five metrics to present to the Board. A provider
recruiting update was presented, and members of the Committee learned: (1) a strong
relationship with Neon Health Services has been established; (2) there is a goal to
interview a certain number of diverse candidates with a position open; (3) there is an
opportunity for a comprehensive and intentional strategy and execution with respect to
providers and extenders; (4) African-American physicians are approximately 5% at
MetroHealth, noting that we compare nationally in a similar manner to Cleveland Clinic
and University Hospitals. She also indicated that the Committee would focus on provider
recruitment with the assistance of Dr. Werner.

B.

Non-Consent Agenda
1. Action Items - None
2. Information Items
a. Office of Inclusion & Diversity Update
- 2019 Key Areas of Focus
- 2019 Enterprise Diversity Scorecard
b. Provider Recruitment Update
c. Supplier Diversity

10.

Executive Committee – No Report

11.

Facilities and Space Committee
A.

Report of Committee Chairperson
Mr. Monnolly stated that Karen Dethloff began the meeting with a report of a 36” water
th
main break on West 14
Street that occurred the week of the polar vortex in January
6

 which impacted the water pressure at MetroHealth. The City of Cleveland isolated the
leak and water pressure was restored six hours later after the whole system purged. Ms.
Dethloff also reviewed the vacancies and new hires in the Facilities Department. Sarah
O’Keefe, Director of Sustainability, explained to the Board that environmental
sustainability is a core value and developed a strategic lens that MetroHealth uses to
increase operational efficiencies and support an environmentally sustainable system that
improves the health of our patients, staff and community. MetroHealth is a member of
Practice Greenhealth, a networking organization delivering environmental solutions to
hospitals and health systems nationally; MetroHealth will be benchmarking our progress
against other hospitals nationally. MetroHealth is reviewing the use of energy and water
in our buildings and total waste as a percentage and trying to reduce that volume, which
is estimated to be 146 tons a year of waste generated in the operating room.
Walter Jones reviewed the status of the progress on the Campus Transformation Project,
stating MetroHealth is on schedule and on budget and the following has occurred: (1)
the demolition of the South Point garage connector bridge occurred on December 15,
2018; (2) the South Point garage was demolished on December 17, 2018; (3) site
clearing for the View Road construction began in February and the installation of storm
water and detention tanks began, the pipes being approximately 108” in diameter and
holding approximately 100,000 gallons; (4) the City Planning Commission gave final
approval of the Campus Transformation project on March 15, 2019; (5) the construction
monitor issued their first report for a positive 2018 fourth quarter; (6) the Transformation
website, metrohealth.org/transformation, has been enhanced; (7) construction
documents and drawings are 50% complete; and (8) the second Guaranteed Maximum
Price (GMP) is scheduled to be brought to this Committee in May and then to the Board
for approval, the scope of work to include the exterior enclosure of the tower, exterior
mock ups, the roof, pneumatic tubes and the Vertical Transportation elevators.
Mr. Jones reported the transition planning engagement with HTS began on March 26,
2019, and will continue through June to define and identify the required planning
exercise, the scope of work required over the next few years before moving into the new
hospital, the budget needed, level of resources required, and the estimated logistics and
choreography for the new 700,000 square foot new building that MetroHealth will occupy
in 2022. He stated key upcoming dates are the Campus Transformation Groundbreaking
Ceremony scheduled for April 15, 2019; the MetroHealth Stakeholders meeting on
June 28, 2019, and the third and final Guaranteed Maximum Price to be brought to the
Committee on July 22, 2019.
B.

Non-Consent Agenda
1. Action Items - None
2. Information Items
a. Facilities Management Update
b. Sustainability Update
c. Campus Transformation Update

12.

Finance Committee – No Meeting

13.

Legal and Government Relations Committee
A.

Report of Committee Chairperson Whiting
Ms. Whiting stated that Government Relations is becoming very important as
MetroHealth is gaining revenue through grants and various programs through the state
and federal governments aiming to protect safety net hospitals. The Joint Commission
visited MetroHealth on Wednesday, March 13, 2019, and were very complimentary of the
organization. The Joint Commission gave information to MetroHealth which will be
7

 distributed to the Board of Trustees to review at a time when all Trustees can meet,
noting their suggestion was to have a Trustee on the Quality and Safety Committee who
is knowledgeable and recommended finding individuals not involved in health care who
are involved in safety departments of other industries to serve as a good resource. With
respect to governance, needs of the Board of Trustees will be reviewed such as
composition and skill sets. A claim will be discussed in Executive Session.
B.

Non-Consent Agenda
1. Action Items
a. Approval of Claim Settlement No. 14-02-0913R (Executive Session)
2. Information Items
a. Visit and Update from The Joint Commission
- Video, Getting to Zero
- Guests from The Joint Commission
Chief Medical Officer, Ana Pujols McKee, MD
Chief Operating Officer, Mark G. Pelletier, RN, MS
b. Government Relations Update
c. Risk Management Report/Annual Claims Update

14.

Nominating Committee – No Meeting

15.

Patient Experience Committee
A.

Report of Committee Chairperson
Mr. McDonald chaired the Patient Experience Committee on behalf of Ms. Dee and noted
that he will circulate his summary to the Board.

B.

16.

Non-Consent Agenda
1. Action Items - None
2. Information Items
a. Review 2018 Year-End Experience Results
b. Review 2019 Patient Experience Goals – System and Departmental
c. Overview and Status Update – In-Patient Task Force Teams
d. Review 2018 Year-End Grievance/Complaint Data
e. Review Language Access Data/Interpretative Services

Quality and Safety Committee
A.

Report of Committee Chairperson
Dr. Boutros reported on behalf of John Moss. Quality and Safety Committee met on
February 13, 2019, and there were no action items. With respect to the 2018
performance goals reviewed, both inpatient and outpatient metrics goals were achieved
well beyond expectations. A discussion ensued with respect to The Joint Commission’s
final review, which was outstanding. Activities to be held during Patient Safety Week of
March 11-15, 2019, were discussed. A Patient Safety Score will be placed on the
MetroHealth MIV (MetroHealth’s intranet) as visibility for employees to reveal the last
time harm was found in the organization; this was found to be highly effective in other
organizations as it motivated staff to be more accountable. Dr. David Crowe discussed a
presentation on the Dermatology QI Project. The 2019 Patient Safety and Quality Goals
that were agreed upon will be discussed in Executive Session.

8

 B.

17.

Non-Consent Agenda
1. Action Items - None
2. Information Items
a. 2018 Goal Performance
b. The Joint Commission
c. Patient Safety Week: March 11-15
d. Patient Safety Index
e. 2019 Patient Safety & Quality Goals
f. Dermatology QI Project

Foundation and System Philanthropy Report – Kate Brown – President, The
MetroHealth Foundation and MHS Chief Development Officer
Ms. Brown stated The MetroHealth Foundation Board met the week of March 18, 2019; three
new Board members were welcomed to the Foundation Board: Dr. John Chae, Vice President of
Research in his new role at MetroHealth, as an Ex Officio Member; Craig Richmond, Chief
Financial Officer, as an Ex Officio Member; and Anna Rodriguez, Corporate Vice President and
Chief Human Resource Officer at Lubrizol Corporation. The Foundation Board approved Jennifer
Herd, Senior Vice President and Market Manager of Bank of America for the State of Ohio, who
will begin her first three-year term in May 2019. MetroHealth has attained $44.1 million to date
in the MetroHealth’s For All of Us $100 million campaign, the campaign to be announced publicly
to the community at the Annual Stakeholders Meeting on June 28, 2019. The first quarter of
2019 began with a $50,000 unrestricted grant from The Jack, Joseph and Morton Mandel
Foundation, which was facilitated by MetroHealth’s Campaign Cabinet Member Dr. Jerry Sue
Thornton and Dr. Thornton and her husband matched. A $100,000 planning grant application
will be submitted to The Kresge Foundation in collaboration with Environmental Health Watch to
review MetroHealth’s eco-district model and potential for green rehab housing in the community
focusing on energy efficiency and the tree canopy; if this planning grant is received and
implemented, it opens the door for a $600,000 implementation grant for the community. A panel
discussion involving Dr. Akram Boutros, Dr. Nabil Chehade, Gregory Zucca, and Lisa Ramirez,
PhD will be held on April 30, 2019, for donors and prospects representing all aspects of the
transformation campaign and ongoing efforts at MetroHealth.

A motion was unanimously passed by roll call vote to go into Executive Session to discuss trade secrets,
litigation, employment and matters required by law to be kept confidential.
Following the Executive Session, the meeting reconvened in open session at approximately 10:25 a.m.
18.

Other Board Items
A. Approval of Claim Settlement No. 14-02-0913R
The Chair noted the discussion surrounding the settlement of Claim No. 14-02-0913R with
Laura McBride. There being no further questions, the Board unanimously authorized and
ratified settlement of Claim No. 14-02-0913R in an amount not to exceed $400,000.
RESOLUTION 19281.
B. Approval of Amendment of the Board’s Conflict of Interest Policy
The Chair noted discussion concerning the amendment of the Board’s Conflict of Interest
Policy. There being no further questions, the Board unanimously approved the amendment
to the Board’s Conflict of Interest Policy to extend the Policy to affiliated boards and entities
in the form attached as Exhibit A. RESOLUTION 19282.

9

 C. Election of Presiding Officers of The MetroHealth System 2019-2020
The Chair noted discussion regarding the election of the presiding officers. There being no
further questions, the Board unanimously approved the following Board of Trustees to the
offices set forth beside their names for a term of one year. RESOLUTION 19283.
Vanessa Whiting
J. B. Silvers
Terence Monnolly

-

Chairperson
Vice-Chairperson
Secretary

The Chair noted that the Chief Legal Officer provided discussions and a review of certain amended
delegations to the President and Chief Executive Officer of functions relating to the management and
control of the hospital. There being no further questions, the Board unanimously approved certain
amendments to the existing delegations to the President and Chief Executive Officer of functions related to
the management and control of the hospital for the purpose of improving the governance and
administrative efficiency of the System and to serve the best interests of the System. RESOLUTION 19284.
The Chair noted that the President and Chief Executive Officer provided discussions concerning a
recommendation for the approval of the 2019 Metrics for the Performance Based Variable Compensation
Plan. There being no further questions, the Board unanimously approved the 2019 Plan Measures and
Goals to be utilized in connection with the overall compensation methodology. These metrics embody a
balanced approach including financial, strategic, quality, operational, consumer focus/community
engagement, diversity and innovation goals. No awards will be paid unless the System achieves the
Adjusted EBIDA “trigger”, which will be calculated net of the Performance Based Variable Compensation
Awards. RESOLUTION 19285.
The meeting adjourned at approximately 10:35 a.m.
NEXT MEETING:

May 22, 2019 (WEDNESDAY) – 8:00 a.m.
The MetroHealth System
Respectfully submitted,

Thomas McDonald, Chairperson

Akram Boutros, M.D., FACHE
President and Chief Executive Officer

10

 