Summit County Opiate Task Force
Key Stakeholders Annual Meeting
Summit County Public Health Auditorium
1867 W. Market St. Suite A, Akron

MEETING NOTES 12/13/2017
ATTENDEES:
47 Community Stakeholders were in attendance.

MEETING MATERIALS:
The following meeting materials were distributed: Agenda, December 13, 2017 Data Dashboard
Handouts, C. William Swank Program: Taking Measure of Ohio’s Opioid Crisis, OARxRS 2016 Annual
Report, Rationale for a Recovery High School, Project DAWN brochures, Addiction Resource Guide.
WELCOME AND INTRODUCTIONS:
Jerry Craig, Executive Director of the County of Summit ADM Board thanked those present for
braving the weather and for their continued help in making an impact on the opiate epidemic.

GENERAL UPDATES:
• United Way Funding: Mr. Craig introduced Dave Rich, Director of Community Health from
United Way. Mr. Rich announced that the United Way identified four Bold Goals, one of
which is to reduce ER visits due to drug overdoses to 1,000 annually in Summit County.
•

More information on the United Way investments to meet this goal can be found at
http://www.uwsummit.org/investments.

Summit County Incident Management Assistance Team (IMAT) & System Mapping: Mr.
Craig introduced City of Green Fire Chief Jeff Funai to discuss the collaboration between the
Summit County Opiate Task Force and the Summit County IMAT to coordinate resources
across Summit County if resources become available due to the Summit County Executive
declaring an emergency on the opioid epidemic.

Mr. Craig also explained that OhioMHAS received 21st Century Cures Act State Targeted
Response to the Opioid Crisis Grants program funds. A portion of these funds were
allocated to the Criminal Justice Coordinating Center of Excellence to offer Sequential
Intercept Mapping workshops, adapted for the opioid epidemic, to develop strategies across
systems to improve the care of individuals affected by opioid use and trafficking and
decrease deaths associated with opioid overdose. As a part of the IMAT/OTF collaboration,
this mapping will be conducted in Summit County at the end of February with 40 key
stakeholders.

County Hub: Jerry Craig shared legislation passed in the state budget bill that designates
County Mental Health & Addiction Boards as County Hubs to combat opioid addiction. The

Mission: The Summit County Opiate Task Force is a group of key individuals and organizations committed to
reducing the tragic consequences of opiate abuse in Summit County through education, collaboration, and the wise
use of available resources.

 purpose of this designation is to strengthen county and community efforts to prevent and
treat opioid addiction; to educate youth and adults about the dangers of opioid addiction and
the negative effects; promote family building and workforce development as ways of
combatting opioid addiction; and to encourage community engagement. Summit County is
working with the Ohio Association of County Behavioral Health Authorities (OACBHA) to
standardize data across the State for a mandated report to the legislature.
Jerry Craig also shared that the OACBHA is working on coordinating an appreciation forum
for those secondarily impacted by the opiate crisis.

DATA DASHBOARD: Mr. Craig presented the findings of the December 13, 2017 Data Dashboard,
which will be posted on the OTF Website.

1. OARRS Update: it was noted that the Ohio Automated Rx Reporting System is the first in
the United States to offer advanced analytics to cross reference overdose information to use
in a more comprehensive manner. OARRS is available free of charge to health care
providers to work with prescribers.

2. Ohio State’s Swank Program Report: The Ohio State University published the Swank
Program in Rural-Urban Policy: Taking Measures of Ohio’s Opioid Crisis in October 2017.
The report focuses on the rise in drug overdose deaths among white, prime-aged men with
only a high school degree. It was identified that this group is four times more at risk for
overdosing.

COMMITTEE REPORTS:
•

Policy-Advocacy: Greg McNeil, President of Cover2 Resources reported that the
committee is developing a process to focus advocacy including the following initiatives:
o the STOP Act for all shippers, including the USPS, to report what is in packages
and where it is going;
o Medicaid Expansion CARE Act; and
o Prescription Drug Monitoring Act, which would enable states to share
information back and forth.

The committee also continues to investigate why we haven’t declared a state of
emergency in Ohio. Other states have used the emergency declaration to coordinate
information in a command center. Mr. McNeil also indicated he began interviewing the
gubernatorial candidates as he believes the opioid epidemic will be a big talking point in
the race.

•

An invitation was extended to everyone to attend the next Policy-Advocacy committee
meeting on February 8th from 3:30-5:00 pm at ADM Board offices.
Family Supports: The Family Supports committee has not met and it was noted that
leadership is needed for the committee. Please contact Jerry Craig, if interested.

Mission: The Summit County Opiate Task Force is a group of key individuals and organizations committed to
reducing the tragic consequences of opiate abuse in Summit County through education, collaboration, and the wise
use of available resources.

 •

•

•

•

Public Awareness: Darryl Brake, Executive Director of Community Partnership of
Summit County and Chair of the Public Awareness Committee, indicated that the
committee met and their Opiate Task Force Powerpoint presentation is constantly being
adjusted and adapted. Several presentations are scheduled for 2018 as well as a
conference. Mr. Brake noted that the Opiate Task Force has a new website:
SummitCountyAddictionHelp.org. He also mentioned that the Deterra bags are working
well. The first 40,000 bags for the first year were free and funding for the second year
has been awarded from the United Way. The program will be expanded into areas
where there are the most overdoses.
Criminal Justice: Jack Davis, City of Cuyahoga Falls Police Chief, indicated that the
committee met last month and they are looking for new co-chairs. They are considering
expanding QRT and discussed how to use the IMAT resource appropriately. They will
also continue to advocate for getting treatment into the jail.

Healthcare: Mr. Craig encouraged everyone to take a closer look at TakeChargeOhio,
which is an initiative to promote safe pain medication and pain management practices
to minimize the risk of drug misuse. Dr. Doug Smith, Chief Clinical Officer with the
County of Summit ADM Board mentioned the 4th Annual Current Concepts in Integrated
Health Care took place on November 4, 2017 with Terry Johnson and Dr. Labor as
speakers. Approximately 170 people attended. They hope to increase participation next
year. The date will be brought back to the committee and Opiate Task Force once
determined.

Youth & Young Adults: Kim Patton, Addictions, Prevention & Training Coordinator with
the County of Summit ADM Board reported the Youth and Young Adults committee is
made up of several subcommittees including:
o Community Supports Team:
 Currently identifying any supports/sober activities that currently exist in
the community to develop a distribution list. The long-term goal is to
develop a 365 days of sober activities calendar.
 Participants shared that Robby’s Place, a drop in center for teens and
young adults which provides sober living activities is now open in Medina.
 A survey of youth who have struggled with addiction is being developed
and will be offered to clients at CHC and Juvenile Court Crossroads
program to ask about: What was helpful to them in their recovery? What
types of sober activities would they like to have available to them? What
helps them stay sober?
o Recovery High School Team Update:
 The team includes representatives from the ADM Board, Rock and
Recovery, Greenleaf Family Center, Akron Public Schools, Educational
Service Center and community volunteers.
 A rationale for recovery school handout was developed and distributed.
 A favorable response was received from the Summit County
Superintendents group presentation.
o School Supports Team:
 The team has met with students in recovery and those impacted by it at
two districts. At Nordonia High School, students shared that having a

Mission: The Summit County Opiate Task Force is a group of key individuals and organizations committed to
reducing the tragic consequences of opiate abuse in Summit County through education, collaboration, and the wise
use of available resources.

 



group of peers with shared experiences was helpful in helping them do
better in school and reflect on the problems they are having.
A survey of school counselors has been completed where 66.7% would
like more information on forming a group in district to support youth in
recovery and would like to see an online repository of recommended
programming.
Several people in attendance asked about whether the team could look
into what type of information/support is given to parents once a child is
identified with an addictive disorder. One person suggested a broader use
of the Red Ribbon awareness activities. Particularly in lower grade
schools.

GENERAL ANNOUNCMENTS & UPCOMING EVENTS:
• Laura Broyles from Hope United (formerly Breaking Barriers – Hope is Alive)
announced there was a Love Bears All event at the end of November for children
who lost a parent to an overdose. Bears and resources were distributed at the event.
The goal to deliver bears to first responders for distribution.

Committee Schedules: Posted on www.summitcountyaddictionhelp.org
• Speakers’ Bureau Training - Please contact Lucky Tisch at 330-564-4057 to be
registered for the next training at the ADM Board offices (1867 W. Market Street, Suite
B2, Akron).
NEXT MEETING: Wednesday, March 14, 2018 at 4:00 pm, in the Summit County Public Health
Auditorium (1867 W. Market St., Akron 44313)

Mission: The Summit County Opiate Task Force is a group of key individuals and organizations committed to
reducing the tragic consequences of opiate abuse in Summit County through education, collaboration, and the wise
use of available resources.

 