THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
REPORT OF THE PRESIDENT AND CEO
TO THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
REGULAR MEETING OF MARCH 27, 2019

Executive
 Cleveland Planning Commission approved our most detailed renderings to date of our new hospi
presented Friday morning, March 15, 2019 by Walter Jones, Senior VP Campus Transformation.
 New Hospital Groundbreaking Ceremony is planned for Monday, April 15, 2019 at 4:30pm. This h
making event will take place outside in the visitor parking lot across from the location of the new
 MetroHealth has moved our minimum wage to $15 per hour, retroactive February 3, 2019, when
MetroHealth and AFSCME Local 3360 reached a new 3-year contract. The wage increase is part o
commitment to give all full-time employees the ability to earn a self-sustaining income.
 Karen Dethloff was recently promoted to Vice President of Facilities Management. She has been w
MetroHealth for 14 years and leads a staff of 117 that keep the mechanical, electrical and struct
functions running at all our facilities.
 David Fiser, Vice President and Chief Information Officer was named to Becker’s Hospital Review’
hospital and health system CIOs to know 2019”.
 Kim Anderson, PhD, a staff scientist in the department of Physical medicine and Rehabilitation, w
a $630,000 grant by the Department of Defense to lead a clinical trial targeting restoration of re
grasping function in individual with spinal cord injuries.
 Beginning in fall, 2019, high school students in the Cleveland Heights-University Heights School
have access to MetroHealth primary care while in school. The pilot program will offer students in
access to MetroHealth medical professionals two days per month in a clinic located at the school
ATTACHMENT “A” at the end of the President’s report for the press release.
 Marissa Edmiston, MD, a Cardiology Fellow, has been selected to receive a 2019 Northeast Ohio
Shakers Award. The award, presented by The Cleveland Professional 20/30 Club, celebrates 25 in
under the age of 35 for excellence in their work, civic engagements, academia, and philanthropic
 Terry Stancin, PhD, received the Joseph D. Matarazzo Award for Distinguished Contribution to Psy
Academic Health Centers. The award is presented by the Association of Psychologists in Academ
Centers and recognizes outstanding psychologists whose work in medical school and health care
enhanced the roles of psychologists in education, research and clinical care.
 MetroHealth recognizes and appreciates all of our volunteers, but I’d like to celebrate two specia
th
Sally Jameson celebrated her
birthday
100
in January! Once a week she works the reception desk at O
Brooklyn Medical Center. And another special volunteer, Dennis Kapral, who is our longest servin
volunteer - 39 years! He demonstrates love every time he visits the Elisabeth Severance Prentiss
 MetroHealth is the first hospital in Ohio to have a Women, Infants and Children (WIC) formula ven
at its pharmacy. Our pharmacy offers the convenience of these formula benefits at the same plac
for their clinic appointments and WIC appointments.
 MetroHealth sponsored MLK film project produced by the Shaker Arts Council called “Conversatio
Courage: The Visit,” Which premiered Sunday, March 24@2pm at Tri-C East Campus.
 Correctional recruiting is in full swing with all positions posted, candidates being scheduled, scre
interviewed.
 290+ candidates have been reviewed for all the correctional positions.
 180+ candidates have been considered qualified and are currently being scheduled for ph
with the recruiters.
 40+ candidates have been sent to the hiring managers for review and consideration.

 Chief of Staff

Department of Public Safety
 Combat Application Tourniquets(C-A-T) were purchased for each of the MetroHealth Police & Secu
Officers. Officers are trained on the proper indication and use of this device. Tourniquet holders
purchased from an ASPR (Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response) grant.
 Several officers attended SAFETAC – Seconds for Survival Training offered by Ohio Tactical Officer
and Westlake police department. This training was presented by Travis Yates. Travis has over 18
experience and currently commands the Special Operations Division of the Tulsa Police Departm
 The Department of Public Safety furthered its commitment to assisting Project Dawn in combatin
epidemic by issuing 46 Narcan “kits” to members of our staff. We saved the lives of four (4) indiv
 In 2019, 700-gun safety locks have been distributed to staff and community.
 Leadership of The Department of Public Safety conducted a physical security assessment of Main
assessment identified risk areas and recommendations to mitigate risk. In addition, this assessm
a CAP Index score utilizing national, state and local crime data and trend information.
 This year, all officers will receive bias based and verbal de-escalation training. Select officers wil
on background investigations, evidence and the bicycle unit; some will attend field training office
New sergeants will attend first line supervision training and our new lieutenant, mid-leve
training. Lieutenants will also receive instruction on investigating internal of use of force inciden

External Affairs
Government Relations
 Government relations staff visited with federal and state delegation staff in February to discuss t
system’s 2019-2020 policy and funding priorities.
 Government relations staff participated with the Healthcare Anchor Network (HAN) federal “Hous
Health” advocacy day on February 28. Staff advocated for the preservation and expansion of the
housing tax credit and home investments partnership programs.
 House Bill 50 was reintroduced by State Rep Dave Greenspan to better protect the intellectual pr
charter county hospitals.
 In collaboration with MetroHealth Trauma Institute staff, a partnership was established with Sout
Lyndhurst (SEL) to provide Trauma Informed Care training for SEL school district and public safety

Community Engagement
 Safe Sleep Heroes project has motivated other health systems, City and County to share the emp
training module with their staffs. Private business is next targeted audience.
 Three MetroHealth community health advocates transitioned to Population Health.
Marketing & Shared Services
Website Development - Recent redesigns or new web/department sections include:




Appointments landing page
 Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation for both
Pharmacy landing page
Locations – improved listings and addedmetrohealth.org and 
Walk-In Care and Recovery Resources gme.metrohealth.org 
(Graduate Medical
 Anticoagulation/Medication Management

Education) sites
Clinic
 SANE and SIM Center
New Sleep Disorders section created with
 Volunteering
updates to related sections: Sleep Surgery,
 Project Dawn
Otolaryngology, Pulmonary, and Salivary
Gland Disorders
Page 2 of 13

Gastroenterology
OB/GYN
Pediatrics
Vascular Medicine
Weight Management

 






The first quarter 2019 issue of our patient and community newsletter SimplyWell was distributed th
and printed versions based on recipients’ preference. New in this issue is a healthy recipe video, aim
engaging patients to eat healthier. Marketing will monitor video views to gauge interest and develop
videos based on results. Newsletter content can be found on our website here.

Major Events
Annual Stakeholders Meeting: The 2019 meeting is scheduled for Friday, June 28, from 8-10am at th
Huntington Convention Center of Cleveland. Plans are underway for this much anticipated event, wh
highlights MetroHealth’s focused efforts on improving the health of our community and updates stak
on future plans.

Communications
Storytelling team presented the results of its monthlong video/audio/print project.
Working with CBS Evening News on a story on one of our young patients and our community trauma
and with Steve Litt of The Plain Dealer on the latest hospital designs.

Facilities Management
 Facilities Projects completed in 2019: 24; Facilities Projects in process: 42 Capital Projects
 Our FM management team has been reviewing the plans and specifications for the new hospital as w
participate in the value management process and vendor reviews.
 Tony Johnson, Manager of Facilities Compliance, passed his Certified Healthcare Facilities Manager te
first try. This is a challenging and comprehensive test with a <35 percent pass rate on the first try.
 On March 18, a new Cleveland Heights Hospital Facilities Manager, Darren Dickson, started, and on
a new Director of Facilities Construction, Tom Moenich, will start.

Trauma Recovery Services
 Attachment “B” (at the end of the President’s Report), is the Annual Report for the MetroHealth Trau
Recovery Center. Our first quarter was quite busy, with annualized outreach projections surpassing l
st
ever
thehospital
1
to host the 2-day intensive Trauma Survivor
 In early March, The MetroHealth System was
Network Coordinator Course in partnership with The American Trauma Society and National Trauma
Network. Hospitals from around the nation sent potential coordinators to our system for expertise, p
implementation, and developing opportunities to better engage their survivors. Some of the hospita
INOVA, Shock Trauma, Brigham and Women’s Boston, SUNY, Jacksonville and Ohio Health. The cours
the incredible stories of survival from our innovative peer mentorship program.
 Story about MetroHealth’s Trauma Survivor team hosting national Trauma Survivors Network trainin
Plain Dealer: https://iqmediacorp.com/lnarticle?id=38736502158&u1=cliq40&u2=1
 As director of the Community Trauma Institute at MetroHealth, Sarah Hendrickson is currently advisi
National Trauma Survivors Network on creating an advanced Trauma Recovery curriculum.
 The Community Trauma Institute is in continued development and is currently solidifying a formal pa
with Cleveland’s premier Crisis Response agency, Frontline Service.
 Sarah Hendrickson’s workshop proposal was accepted at the 6th Annual Trauma-Informed Care Sum
Columbus, Ohio in May. In addition, she was invited to speak at the Health Educational Panel on Gun
at Case Western Reserve University in April and the Cleveland Leadership Center Bridge Builder’s Pr
Building Collaboratives later that same month.

Faith Community Outreach / Pastoral Care
 Plans are in place for a MetroHealth Open House in May 2019 with faith leaders called “Gathering of
Shepherds/An update on Transformation and Health Equity at MetroHealth” to begin to planning of
denominational and geographical health clusters.
 Project Thrive, a trauma informed framework for faith communities to support persons impacted by
two Healing Circles (near westside and southeast/Mt. Pleasant) up and running. Tony Minor and Dr.
Page 3 of 13

 




Myers, PhD, trained an additional 21 leaders on trauma and trauma informed care on Monday, Marc
at MetroHealth preparing them to establish Trauma Support Teams and to work through the Healing
Katie Davis, Dr. Lisa Ramirez, and Joyce Hood, working through the School Health Program and the K
Youth Organization, have referred a total of 10 students and families to date for support through con
affiliated with Project Thrive.
The number of churches affiliated with the Westside Healing Circle has expanded to ten congregatio
training process. Steel Valley Credit Union has become the first corporate/business partner and will
conducting training on “financial trauma” along with offering services to improve credit and increas
management competencies.
The Office of Pastoral Care recently provided ashes on Ash Wednesday to four clinics, two medical s
Hospital and McCafferty Health Center) and all nursing units and provided three “Tea for the Soul” s
activities for medical staff.

System Dyad
Dr. Bernard Boulanger spoke at Cleveland State University to their chapter of the American Medica

Association on ‘The State of Healthcare in Cleveland’ on January 24.
Michael Stern helped open the new MetroHealth Medina Health Center at the ribbon cutting ceremo

January 25.
Dr. Bernard Boulanger participated in a panel discussion following a film screening of ‘To Err is Hum

MetroHealth’s Patient Safety Week on March 12.

Hospital Operations

Completed a successful move of 6C Short Stay Medicine to 10B to facilitate improved patient exper

Planned expansion of inpatient dialysis services for implementation in April.
Streamlined orders for telemetry usage to facilitate improved throughput.

Developed a job description for the Medical Director of the Capacity Command Center and initiated











Emergency Preparedness
MetroHealth’s Cold Weather Playbook was triggered twice in January due to the arctic polar vortex
a colder arctic blast that had not been experienced since 2014. For both events, recommended bu
protective measures were implemented with no significant impacts to hospital operations.
The state-wide Special Pathogens workgroup (Ebola) continues to refine response and support team
consequence infections. MetroHealth participated in the Great Lakes Health Partnership virtual exe
assess gaps and seams for interstate transport of Ebola patients from MetroHealth to the Minnesot
Ebola treatment center. CDC has initiated monitoring of returning healthcare workers who served i
Democratic Republic of the Congo which is experiencing the second worst Ebola outbreak.

Environmental Services, Logistics, and Textile Care
The department launched the LYFT taxi service to improve patient experience. The estimated time
most LYFT rides is less than 10 minutes, and we have found most of the rides to be less than five m
helps reduce wait time for discharged patients needing transportation. The service is also being ut
several grant funded initiatives.
The Environment Services Department has implemented the following ESQIC (Environmental Servic
Institute Committee) initiatives.
 The Green Mile has been cleared and hallway storage eliminated there.
 Total discharge turnover times have been reduced.
 Department supply inventory has been reduced which resulted in cost savings.
To provide accountability and to improve patient safety initiatives, an individual audit tool was crea
th
OR custodial workers resulting in quality scores
percentile
in the 90 for the past eight report periods
To reduce infections and decrease cost (paper and soap products), hands free automated dispenser
installed in the Towers and Critical Care Pavilion buildings.
Page 4 of 13

 

Job descriptions for Environmental Services leadership were rewritten to add the requirement of ce
and licensure. The new job description will substantiate their role, “to provide a safe and clean env
everyone we serve” and describe Environmental Services’ contribution in the healing process of all
Leaders’ licenses must be kept current for employment.

Pathology
Pathology successfully completed the 2019 interim CAP (College of American Pathologists) accredit


The Department held a Pathology Strategic Retreat for Professional Staff, Residents, and Administra
February 23, 2019. Departmental strategic direction for both short and long term was identified.
A surgical pathologist was successfully recruited with onboarding scheduled for the second quarter


Pharmacy
MetroHealth Plaza Retail Pharmacy filled its two millionth prescription in February.


In 2018, the office-based ambulatory pharmacists evaluated over 1,000 patients which resulted in
blood sugar hemoglobin A1c reduction from 10 percent to 8.5 percent, which meets the quality me
Medicare and Medicaid populations.

Patient Access

Contact Center’s First Contact Resolution rate for Primary Care remains steady at 78 percent for pe
January 1, 2019 – March 14, 2019.

Dentistry scheduling optimization was completed on March 6, 2019 as planned to enhance the Con
ability to schedule or reschedule dental treatments to make access easier for patients.
MyChart patient support calls were internalized with Contact Center on February 1, 2019 with endin

Stericycle contract to result in reduced expense and improved service level.
Training and on-site support provided to Recovery Resources and Cuyahoga County Corrections to m

operational needs for scheduling.
MyMetro 2019 implementation schedule finalized as follows: Hand Plastic Surgery (April); Spine, Pa

and Gastroenterology (June); Geriatrics South Campus (August); OB/GYN (September); Nephrology,
Endocrinology and Infectious Disease (December).
Service Lines

Adult Health and Wellness
 Crocker Park Walk-In Primary Care Services now available, in addition to previous WIN (walk in no
(Rocky River and Medina).
 Providers are partnering with DCFS and W&C to provide a warm handoff for patients aging out of
Care.
 Better Health Partnership Gold Star Awards for achievements in Quality Care Outcomes for 2017

Page 5 of 13

 



GERIATRICS:
 Senior Health received the Gold Star Recognition Awards from Better Health: Diabetes Achievem
BP Achievement, & CRC screening achievement.
 New consulting (co-medical directorships) at St. Augustine, Broadview Multicare, McGregor Gard
McGregor Pace.
BEHAVIORAL HEALTH:
 Julie Pajek, PhD, is serving as an invited member of an expert group tasked with developing and
developmental milestones for a project called Promoting Developmental Surveillance in Pediatri
with "Learn the Signs. Act Early," put forth by the American Academy of Pediatrics and CDC.
 Lisa Ramirez, PhD was featured on a WCPN IdeaStream show aired on February 28, 2019, “After
Cleveland Girls Speak Their Truth.”
 Dr. Neera Gupta has accepted a position within the Department of Psychiatry. She’s a certified e
addiction specialist focused on the continued growth of MetroHealth’s addiction treatment servi
 Judy Mbure, APRN will be assisting with psychiatric medication management in the County Jail.

Cancer Care
 MetroHealth received notification from Susan G. Komen® Northeast Ohio that they have approved fu
support the BREAST / Amigas Program to provide Breast screenings for the community for 2019/2020
 Cancer Care redesigned their capabilities brochure and renamed it “You’re What Matters to Us”.
 Sarah Perkarcsik, RN was nominated for the Daisy Award.

Emergency Medicine
 The service line recruited several key leaders including Prehospital Center Director and Main Campus
Manager.
 Metro Life Flight ground program had exceeded volume targets in January and February based on the
the new ALS unit.

Neuro-Musculoskeletal
 In February 2019, the Blue Ridge Institute for Medical Research ranked the department of PM&R at
The MetroHealth System and Case Western Reserve University number two in NIH awards (for fiscal y
2018) among departments of PM&R in US Medical Schools.
 In February 2019, Contralaterally Controlled Functional Electrical Stimulation, an innovative electrica
system that facilitates recovery from paralysis following stroke, was licensed to Synapse Biomedical,
device company in Oberlin, OH. The system was developed by MetroHealth Rehabilitation Institute R
and Case Western Reserve University scientists, Jayme Knutson, PhD, John Chae, MD, and P. Hunter P
PhD with funding from the NIH.
 Dr. Joseph Hanna, Chair of Neurology, met with Senator Dolan regarding House Bill 464, which recog
centers and establishes stroke protocols.
 ‘Regionalization of Spine Trauma Care in an Urban Trauma System in the United States: Decreased Ti
Surgery and Hospital Length of Stay’ was published in Neurosurgery, The Register of the Neurosurgic
by Drs Michael Kelly and Timothy Moore.

Specialty Care
 As of April 1, MetroHealth will be offering coronary calcium scoring at no cost.
 Ann Igoe, MD, has received the SAFMR/SSCI Trainee Award from the American Federation of Medical
and the Southern Society for Clinical Investigation. The award recognizes trainees for demonstrating
research and is the result of Dr. Igoe’s abstract that investigated autoimmune disease testing at an a
center using clinical informatics methods. Dr. Igoe, a second-year Rheumatology fellow, will accept h
the SSCI Southern Regional Meeting next month in New Orleans.

Page 6 of 13

 Trauma, Critical Care, Burns
 Vanessa Ho, MD was the recipient of the KL2 NIH Grant through Case Western Reserve University.

Women and Children’s
 Dr. Birnkrant’s machine to help children with Muscular Dystrophy breathe and cough came on the m
 Dr. Needleman honored by Mayor Jackson for “reach out and read”.
 NICU honored with gold level BEACON status, a highly coveted honor.

Ambulatory Operations
 Medical Specialties & Surgery Clinics
 Nephrology has started to develop a Team-Based Care Pilot with Dr. Saab and Horowitz as physic
champions. Team based care has the potential to offer a patient centered care environment and
based work environment.
 Ortho Hand and Upper Extremity has expanded services to Middleburgh Heights and Brecksville
 Parma Medical Center:
 Conducted De-Escalation Workshop for employees, presented by Recovery Resources.
 The Joint Commission visited Parma where we were able to present the Ambulatory Response Te
and success of Colorectal Cancer Screening PI project.
 Medina Primary Care
 MetroHealth held a ribbon cutting ceremony January 25 with over 30 key stakeholders and comm
leaders present to celebrate the new office.
 Ambulatory Operations
 20 patient check-in kiosks are live across multiple locations. We are checking in 6 percent of all
appointments through the new patient friendly technology.
 Open Notes went live in February where patients can now view their clinical notes within MyCha
MetroHealth joining this initiative, we are increasing transparency, safety, and care plan awaren
 School Health Program (SHP):
 School Health Program hosted 47 CMSD RNs for a Professional Development Day that involved a
MH Departments speaking and CMSD RNs receiving CEUs.
 SHP hosted a system-wide supply drive for clothes, books, and hygiene items for our SHP stude
 MetroHealth SHP hosted the NEO School Health Collaborative quarterly meeting in early January
that attended the meeting included representatives from: University Hospitals, Cleveland Clinic,
International Community Health Center – ASIA Inc, Neighborhood Family Practice.
 SHP and Arts In Medicine began their spring SAFE (Students Are Free to Express) Arts Residency
Harvey Rice in Grades Pre-K and K.
Human Resources/Inclusion & Diversity





Successfully completed labor contract negotiations with full ratification on February 27, 2019 by AFS
Local 3360 bargaining unit members.
 Effective April 2, 2019 - Minimum $15 hourly wage (impacting 928 union and non-union employ
retroactive back to February 3, 2019).
 Effective January 1, 2020 - No co-pay, deductible or co-insurance for SkyCare (MetroHealth-Only
services (NOTE: Pharmacy services are not included).
Completed annual calibration of performance and potential of all managers and above across the sy
5th Annual Transgender Job Fair scheduled for Saturday, April 6, 2019 from 8:00am-2:00pm at Main C

Page 7 of 13

 Ethics and Compliance







Created a poster titled “Be a Reporter” for the Patient Safety Week contest highlighting how to repo
types of concerns.
Established a multi-disciplinary task force to examine the onboarding and offboarding process of em
contractors, volunteers, researchers, students and others.
Revised Board Conflict of Interest policy to include affiliated governing bodies.
Hired Privacy Officer.
Established multi-disciplinary committee to review HIPAA violations.
Women@Metro hosted a networking event with female employees and primary care providers.

Nursing




The American Association of Critical-Care Nurses (AACN) has granted a gold-level Beacon Award for
the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) at MetroHealth. The award — a significant milestone on the
exceptional patient care and healthy work environments — recognizes unit caregivers who successf
patient outcomes and align practices with AACN's six Healthy Work Environment Standards. Units th
this three-year, three-level award with a gold, silver or bronze designation meet national criteria con
Magnet Recognition, the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award and the National Quality Healthca
During Patient Safety Week, several units were recognized for their work in reducing patient falls du
Melissa Kline, Senior Vice President-Patient Care Services and Chief Nursing Officer; Theresa Hannu,
CNO-Hospital Nursing; and Mark Pelletier, Chief Operating Officer, Accreditation and Certification Op
and Chief Nursing Executive for The Joint Commission visited and presented certificates to each unit

2BC Postpartum: 31% 7BC Trauma: 36% reduction and 256 days without11BC
seeing
Medicine:
a
28%
reduction
fall!
reduction
6B Psychiatry: 35% reduction
8C: 31%
Burn ICU: 87% reduction
7A Orthopedics: 35%
9B Medicine/Stroke: 52% reduction
Trauma ICU: 58% reductio
reduction
10C Oncology: 31% reduction
Finance








Craig Richmond was a panelist on the CFO Roundtable at the Emerging Issues in Financial Re
Conference hosted by KPMG, The University of Akron and The J.M. Smucker Company on March 2
Sue McCarthy joined The MetroHealth System as Vice President of Financial Planning and Analysis
providing strategic leadership in innovating methods for financial planning and analysis activities
Enrollment on Wheels RV has participated in 46 events, servicing 243 community members in Jan
February. We rendered 340 services to our community, seeing 243 members.
RSM US LLP, the System’s external audit partner, has completed the 2018 financial statement au
significant issues have arisen, and their full report will be given to the Audit Committee on March
MetroHealth’s Financial Reporting team has implemented GASB 75 – Accounting and Financial Rep
Other Postemployment Benefits (OPEB) and the impact has been included in the year-end financi
statements.
The new modules of the Enterprise Financial Forecasting application are now live and being used
patient level results to operational leaders. This new functionality allows all service lines to evalu
profitability quickly and effectively.

Internal Audit
Internal audit completed the 2018 Internal Audit plan which consisted of 40 audits across the six
categories: Operational, Financial, People & Culture, IT & Technology, Quality & Safety, and Regul
Compliance.



Page 8 of 13

 

The 2019 Internal Audit plan was presented to the Audit and Compliance Committee of the Board
and approved. Internal Audit will begin communicating 2019 internal audits to process owners du
and April to coordinate timing of planned audits.

Enterprise Data Analytics
 The Department of Operations Research and Analytics (DORA) is in the final stages of testing a ne
tool that aligns staffing to demand in the Emergency Department.
 Representative(s) from DORA hosted the Cleveland Area Tableau Users Group for a presentation o
MetroHealth’s journey implementing a best-in-class visualization software. The attendees learned
MetroHealth’s successes and knowledge gained in our transformation to a data-driven organizatio

Enterprise Program Management Office
The Enterprise Program Management Office (EPMO) assisted Interventional Radiology (IR) with th
implementation of the QSight Inventory Management System. QSight provides increased control o
inventory and more accurate patient billing. The system enables the IR team to scan supplies an
automatically sends the charges to Epic, resulting in the elimination of burdensome, manual task
 Lynn Susi, Project Strategist in the Enterprise Program Management Office (EPMO) became a Mas
TeamSTEPPS trainer. She will now assist with training others on the value of TeamSTEPPS includin
others to become Master trainers.


Information Technology (IT)
 Greg Journey joined MetroHealth as our Information Security Officer. Greg will oversee the leader
enterprise strategy for the information security program for The MetroHealth System.
 Information Services and Clinical Informatics successfully implemented Epic EMR at four Recover
locations on February 1, 2019. The use of our Epic EMR supports an integrated medical record, b
efficiencies, and clinical best practices.
 Ashish Masih, Director Business Applications, and Jennifer Davis, Director Patient Financial Servic
presented on “Technology Redefining Revenue Cycle” at Healthcare Information and Managemen
Society’s (HIMSS) annual conference, HIMSS19. They provided insight on how technology is bein
gain efficiencies in Revenue Cycle.

Supply Chain
 MetroHealth’s second reverse diverse vendor trade show was held on March 1, 2019. Represent
from 14 diverse vendors and suppliers received one-on-one time with MHS leaders. The purpose
shows is to connect the diverse, local vendor community with MHS decision-makers to improve o
for partnerships with MHS.
Foundation and System Philanthropy






MetroHealth’s For All of Us $100 million campaign is moving forward, with $37.1 million of the $4
committed to program and endowment and $6.9 million committed to capital. The Campaign Ca
partnership with the boards and staff, anticipate achieving the $50 million by the end of 2019.
Executives from Molina Healthcare – including Ami Cole, Plan President; TaKeysha Sheppard Chen
Director, Community and Member Engagement; and Amy Conn, VP, Network Mgmt. & Operation
Network Strategy Services – recently visited MetroHealth to learn more about MetroHealth and o
philanthropic priorities.
Alex Derkson, Vice President of Global Philanthropy at JPMorgan Chase Bank, visited MetroHealth
March 1, 2019. MHF Board member Rob Durham helped secure the meeting, and Brian O’Neill pa
in the conversation which focused on MetroHealth’s Transformation, economic and community d
and the Lincoln-West School of Science and Health.
Page 9 of 13

 






Representatives from Charles Bowlus Charities Inc. visited MetroHealth on March 18, 2019 to lea
about MetroHealth’s Cancer Center and Pediatric Wellness Center. Cancer Center Director Dr. Be
and Lydia Bert, Center Director for Women and Children's, took part in the meeting.
The Jack, Joseph and Morton Mandel Foundation recently made a $50,000 unrestricted grant to
MetroHealth.
U.S. Communications and Electric have stepped up as the title sponsor for the John A. Gannon M
Tournament on September 16, 2019 at Manakiki Golf Course. For more information or to reserve
foursome, please contact Steve Ostrolencki, Corporate Giving Officer, at 440-592-1402.
Jennifer Hurd, Senior Vice President, Market Manager for the State of Ohio, Bank of America has j
The MetroHealth Foundation Board of Directors.

Page 10 of 13

 ATTACHMENT “A”

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
February 26, 2019
CONTACT:
Scott Wortman, Supervisor of Communications, CH-UH
(216) 320-2009, s_wortman@chuh.org
Tina Shaerban Arundel, Public & Media Relations Manager, The MetroHealth System
440-592-1334, tarundel@metrohealth.org

Students in Cleveland Heights-University Heights School District to Have Better Access to H
Partnership with The MetroHealth System

(Cleveland) – High school students in the Cleveland Heights-University Heights City School District will
access to primary care while they are in school. In Fall 2019, a pilot program will launch at Heights High
allowing students in-person access to MetroHealth medical professionals two days per month in a clinic
the school.

With parent/guardian consent, students can receive routine checkups, immunizations, sports ph
screenings. The clinic will provide referrals for additional services including behavioral health. The prog
designed to help eliminate barriers to receiving health care.

The pilot also includes a needs assessment to understand the medical, mental health, wellness, and he
needs of the students. It will help determine the barriers to accessing care at community health center
other clinical resources and will help shape decisions around programming.

“This new partnership with MetroHealth is an exciting opportunity for our community and for the well-b
students,” said CH-UH Superintendent Dr. Talisa Dixon. “We are continually searching for new ways to b
barriers to academic success. Convenient access to health care is a necessity for our students. I look fo
seeing what this partnership can bring to our district.”

MetroHealth’s School Health Program has proven successful in several Cleveland Metropolitan high sch
John Adams, Lincoln-West and Garrett Morgan. The program launched with a similar pilot program in 20
serves students at 13 schools within the Cleveland Metropolitan School District.
Page 11 of 13

 Payments for individual services will be billed to the insurer and MetroHealth staff will assist those with
in applying for coverage.

“Our School Health Program is greatly impacting the lives of students and their families. We’ve seen im
attendance in school, higher rates of engagement by both students and parents and improved grade po
said Christine Alexander-Rager, MD, chair of Family Medicine at MetroHealth and senior adviser of the S
Program. “I applaud the Cleveland Heights-University Heights School District for focusing on the whole
recognizing that access to health care is vitally important to a student’s academic success.”

“This partnership is a direct result of our Community in Schools Task Force and its exploration of coordin
around services in our schools,” said Dr. Dixon. “MetroHealth was an engaged partner on the Task Force
perfect fit for us with a newer facility in our community.”

MetroHealth has an established presence in the Cleveland Heights community. In 2016, the health syst
emergency department and started managing the medical offices at the former HealthSpan facility at 1
Circle. In 2018, MetroHealth expanded services for the community by opening a 12-bed hospital at the
About The MetroHealth System

The MetroHealth System, Cuyahoga County’s public health system, is honoring its commitment to crea
community by building a new hospital on its main campus in Cleveland. The building, and the 25 acres
around it, are catalyzing the revitalization of MetroHealth’s West Side neighborhood.

MetroHealth will break ground on the new hospital in 2019, using nearly $1 billion it borrowed on its ow
dramatically improving its finances. In the past five years, MetroHealth’s operating revenue has increas
percent and its number of employees by 21 percent. Today, its staff of 7,800 provides care at MetroHea
hospitals, four emergency departments and more than 20 health centers and 40 additional sites throug
Cuyahoga County. In the past year, MetroHealth has served 300,000 patients at more than 1.4 million v
hospitals and health centers, 75 percent of whom are uninsured or covered by Medicare or Medicaid.

The health system is home to Cuyahoga County’s most experienced Level I Adult Trauma Center, verifie
and one of two adult and pediatric burn centers in the state of Ohio.

As an academic medical center, MetroHealth is committed to teaching and research. Each active staff p
a faculty appointment at Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine and its main campus hos
Cleveland Metropolitan School District high school of science and health.
For more information, visit metrohealth.org

Page 12 of 13

    
  

ATTACHMENT 

2018 Trauma Recovery
Center Annual Report

[ll MetroHealtII

1
Engeg ed itl'l
2 241

times.

to
sere 'ee -:eg es 
I f'rIZI'rI'iIl \cu-r?j

1.020
Undupl leated
Uioti ms Se reed

f'eer unteer
Hours Legged

 

Elf these, ?15

were rule 
the age of '18 

one had reported. a
Baa D1: Bl] Fll'?'lrl'lUUE El"

Top Firre Vietimizations

I35

ED-

Flnleit'al ?aeeuft
I Domestic: 'tl'iolenee

Child Pl'nlsic'al Abuse
or Neglect

Enamel ?aeeuft
F'lebheql

'tl'ioleme

I [Itt'rer

 

 

 

m. 65?

Peer "Jo lunte er
F'etlent 

We established 1? formal
partnerships with l'u'letIoHealth
programs and community.I partners
to better so are our patients.

   
      

0 CI

II
f'l'l

      

 

215 referrals .. Dur eeunseling
tecommunitgr eenterpre'u'ided 

partners counseling seaiens

The Communib?rsm?ra expense-1 Inl'ren it ?lled new positions
luhiolt inducted Spiel The?ohecl Health Program,
Alpha ClinisI'Feeter Care and WE [Sextet new.? HLre'ng Erarn Pregrartt

l?otim Profile

15% presented with multiple eic?miltions

52% are EliaClUl African American, 35%
are White, 1'5 Hispanic and E't'l: Uther

51.1% Male, ?.114: Female, 1% 

More than same from
an undersenred population


For more information, please contact The Llommunit-ir Trauma Institute at 216-113?3602.

This um :L?urtad by I 'I'icti'rl of Erin: Ant: gmt. nuTter US Department Ell?:e  :rl 
Prom [Illin- Far'l'ieti'rn of Erirrl 'I'I'ouj1 ?El?n-If the 'I'ietirre: a'l -:rirru wil be saved.

 

Page 13 of 13

