  

CUYAHOGA COUNTY LAND REUTILIZATION CORPORATION
MINUTES AND ACTIONS OF BOARD OF 

REGULAR QUARTERLY MEETING OF
MARCH 29, 2019

      
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LOCATION: Lakeside Place

812 Huron Road, E., Conference Room 830
Cleveland, OH 44115
March 29, 2019; 10:00 AM. ET
PURPOSE: Regular quarterly meeting to consider the following business:
1. Call to order by the Chair. The regular quarterly meeting of the Cuyahoga County Land Reutilization Corporation

(the was held March 29, 2019 at 812 Huron Road, E., Suite 800, Cleveland, Ohio and called to order at 10:04 am.
Chairman Anthony Brancatelli, Michael King, Representative of Cuyahoga County Council President Dan Brady, Mr. Kenneth
Surratt, Representative of County Executive Armond Budish, Chief Ed Rybka of the City of Cleveland, Ms. April Urban and
Mr. Nate Kelly were present and constituted a quorum.

Mayor Sellers arrives at 10:07 am.

2. Approval of the minutes of the December 21, 2018 regular quarterly Meeting. The minutes of the December 21,
2018 meeting were distributed. The date of the Board meeting was incorrectly stated on the minutes. A motion for
approval of the amended minutes was made by Michael King, seconded by Mayor Sellers, and approved by voice vote
without objection.

3. Election of Chair of the Board of the A nomination of Anthony Brancatelli as Chair of the Board was made
by Mr. Surratt, seconded by Chief Rybka. No other nominations were recommended. A roll call vote was taken and the
nomination of Anthony Brancatelli as Chair of the Board of the was approved by unanimous voice vote.

4. Election of Vice-Chair of the Board of the A nomination of Mayor Brad Sellers for Vice-Chair of the Board
was made by Mr. Surratt, seconded by Chief Rybka. No other nominations were recommended. A roll call vote was taken
and the nomination of Mayor Sellers as Vice-Chair of the Board of the was approved by unanimous voice vote.

5. Sta?? Reports:
0 President?s Report:

0 Status of Acquisitions. Demolitions and Renovations to Date - The has acquired 11,201
properties, demolished 7,498 to date and completed 82 in-house renovations. The has
transacted 1,795 homes through its deed-in-escrow program and direct sales. Currently 4,184
properties are in inventory. Mr. Frangos informed the Board that the number of properties coming
into the inventory of the will begin to look different since the demolition funding will likely
be depleted and the will not be acquiring as many properties.

0 Litigation Ugdate A motion for Summary Judgment has been ?led and granted in favor of the
in the Oak Leadership institute v. Tijuan Dow, et ai matter. The Supreme Court case of
State of Ohio, ex rel. Elliott G. Feltner v. Cuyahoga County Board of Revision, et al is currently
pending. The has been dismissed from the case. Amicus Briefs are being drafted by County
Treasurers Association; Ohio Prosecuting Attorneys Association; County Auditors? Association; the
Ohio Land Association and along with the Ohio Attorney General?s Office. The has
filed an action against the City of Cleveland as it pertains to attempt to collect fees in
Cuyahoga County Land Reutilization Corporation vs. City of Cleveland, et al.

0 Legislation No active legislation at this time.

Contractor Update - A list of the demolition contractor expenditures and ?eld service provider
expenditures was distributed to the board. As of the date of this meeting, no contractors
have reached the contractor limit for notification to the Board.

0 Strategic Plan and Impact Study Status ?The is continuing to work with the consultants on
both the strategic plan and impact study. The strategic plan is being finalized and Dynamo Metrics
is ?nalizing the economic impact study. The impact study results will be released in June with an
event at Cleveland State University.

0 10-year celebration The will celebrate its 10-year impact with an event on October 17,
2019. The event is entitled Impact!

0 County Housing Program Update and Outreach - The met with community development
partners to discuss the new county plan and policy changes in acquiring properties through the
.Follow-up meetings with individual community development groups and community
partners are being scheduled. The meetings will be held to discuss individual partner needs and
policy changes.

0 Mr. William Whitney presented the Report of Chief Operating Officer

0 County Demolition Program Discussion and Update Mr. Whitney informed the Board that the
continues to perform nuisance abatement demolitions for the municipalities and is
continuing to draw down funds on the demolitions of owned properties. Ken Surratt
indicated that the program will close out as of December 31, 2020.

Hardest Hit Funds Discussion and Update The has received an additional $3.2 million
from reallocation of funds from OHFA for demolition of properties in its inventory. These funds
must be spent by the summer of 2020. Chief Rybka inquired as to the number of properties in
the inventory which need to be demolished. The number of properties to be demolished
is approximately 800 to 850.

0 Presentation of Finances The ?nancial statements were provided to the Board prior to the
meeting and discussed.

 

 

7. Resolution 2019?1 - Amending the Public Records Policy of the Corporation. A motion was made and discussed
to amend and clarify the records retention policy. There being no further discussion on the Resolution, Mike King
offered for consideration and adoption Resolution 2019-1. Mayor Sellers seconded the motion. All board members voted
in favor and the resolution was adopted.

8. Other Business: - The board was informed that the yearly audit performed by the State of Ohio is currently
taking place. In response to a question from Board Member Surratt, the Finance Director reported that the State Auditor
would now correctly value properties at their acquisition value.

8. Public Comment: No public comment

9. Adjournment: There being no more business to come before the meeting, Mayor Sellers moved that the meeting be
adjourned. His motion was seconded by Michael King and the motion carried unanimously. The meeting was adjourned at
approximately 11:16 am.

I hereby certify that the minutes related to the Board of Directors? regular quarterly meeting of March 29, 2019 set forth
above are the minutes approved by the Board of Directors at their meeting of June 28, 2019.

?i 4

Robert Rink, Secretary
Cuyahoga County Land Reutilization Corporation

 

2

