 

American Legion

MEL BAIIER
COMMISSIONER

JON REISS
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

DATE:

PRESENT:

EXCUSED:

VISITORS:

PURPOSE:

The meeting was called to order by President Potts followed by the Pledge of Allegiance.

 

American Veterans Disabled American Veterans Veterans of Foreign Wars

FRANK CHRISTOPHER GRAU CLAYTON E. UZEIJL

COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER
Cuyahoga County

Veterans Service Commission

P11: 216.698.2600 0 Fax: 216.698.2650
Email: 

1849 Prospect Avenue 0 Suite 150 Cleveland,OH 441 15

MINUTES

September 5, 2018 9:30 am.

Bob Potts, President

Clayton E. Uzell, Vice President

Mel Baher, Secretary

Frank Pocci, Commissioner

Christopher Grau, Commissioner

Brian Gutkoski, Asst. County Prosecutor
Lorri Slivka, Executive Secretary

Jon Reiss, Executive Director
None.

GENERAL MEETING

vi

Vielnam Veterans of America
BOB POTTS
COMMISSIONER

 

A motion was made by Mel Baher and seconded by Frank Pocci to dispense with the reading of the
Consent Agenda and to accept the agenda with the necessary corrections and/or additions. (All
Commissioners have a copy of the minutes.)

AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

A motion was made by Mel Baher and seconded by Frank Pocci to go out of the regular order of business
and into Executive Session for a phone conference with the Executive Director to discuss a personnel

issue concerning compensation.

AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell.

NAYS: None. Motion carried. (9:33 am.)

The Board came out of Executive Session and returned to the regular order of business at 9:54 am.

In Executive Session, employee compensation was discussed and a memo will be forthcoming.

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886?

Internet 0 

 REPORTS:

Mel Baher American Legion

I attended all schedule meetings of the during the month of August 2018. Following, is a
report of my activities outside of the for the month of August 2018.

0 Wednesday, August 1St 4 I attended the American Legion 13?? District council meeting held at
American Legion Post 469 in Cleveland, Ohio. The meeting began at 7:30 pm. I presented the
executive board approved ?nancial reports for June 2018, as District Finance Of?cer.

0 Thursday, August 9?h I attended the American Legion Post 91 membership meeting. I presented
my updated membership report, as Post 1St Vice Commander.
0 Monday, August 20th I attended the American Legion 13th District Council executive board

meeting held at American Legion Post 469 in Cleveland, Ohio. The meeting began at 7:30 pm. I
presented the July 2018 ?nancial reports for executive board approval, as District Finance Of?cer.

0 Thursday, August I attended the American Legion Post 91 executive board meeting and
presented an updated membership report, as Post 1St Vice Commander.
0 Friday, August 24th I departed for Minneapolis, MN to attend the American Legion?s Centennial

National Convention. On Saturday, August I attended the National Security Council
meeting, of which I am on as a National appointed standing committee member. Sunday, August
26th, I attended the National Rules and Credentials committee meeting as a Department of Ohio
appointed delegate. That committee determined a total of 2,245 delegates were registered and in
attendance for this convention. A total of 101 delegates represented the State of Ohio.
Convention sessions began Tuesday and continued through Thursday with the election of our new
National Commander, Brett Reista, of Virginia. I returned home late Thursday evening.

Frank Pocci AMVETS

I I completed the August ?nancial reports for Post 80 and the FY 2017 detail has been reviewed and
approved.

The honor guard continues to serve funeral honor duties at the Ohio Western Reserve Cemetery.
Several AMVETS Post 80 members plan on attending the D-Day reenactment in Conneaut, Ohio.
The activities committee is planning a trip of military interest during 2018.

I ?led the donation reimbursements for the Memorial Day contribution by Post 80.

The AMVETS 74?h convention was held in Orlando, Florida on August 7th.

AMVETS National Headquarters, August 27, 2018 American Veterans (AMVETS) is deeply
disappointed in the lack of traditional and appropriate respect in the White House?s reaction to the
death of U.S. Senator John S. McCain 111, the retired Navy Captain and former prisoner of the
Vietnam War, who gave 60 years of honorable service to this country.

Other Activities:

0 During August, I attended all of the scheduled open public and Level appeals
hearings.
1 attended the Italian American War Veterans (ITAM) meeting in August. As

?nance of?cer, I also completed our ?nancial report.
a The ITAM Dept. of Ohio?s next meeting will be held Sunday, October 7, 2018 in Lorain,

Ohio.

0 I referred one veteran to the Parma CBOC to file a claim with one of our service of?cers.
Also, still working on getting an ID. for a veteran whose documents were lost in the St.
Louis ?re.

I am working with our Executive Director to get a proclamation from the for a
WWII veteran who turned 100 in June.

a The US. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) recently released a new online feature

through the My HealtheVet portal that allows veterans to access their medical images and

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886? Internet 0 

associated study reports online. Called VA Medical Images and Reports, the feature
allows veterans with a premium account to view, download, and share copies of their
radiology studies, such as x-rays, mammograms, MRIs and CTs, from the VA Electronic
Health Record (EHR).

Chris Grau DAV

0 August 15?, I attended the public meeting.

0 August 15? I visited the Veteran?s Mobile Outreach, sponsored by Rep. Jim Renacci, at the City
of Rocky River Memorial Hall.

August attended the Level appeals hearings.

August 15?? I attended the public meeting.

August 22"? attended the Level appeals hearings.

NOTE: There are no scheduled DAV or JVC meetings in August.

Clay Uzell VFW
0 August 15? I attended the open public meeting.

0 August attended the Level appeals hearings.

0 August 12?? I attended the VFW District of A Conference held at Parma Post 1974. I passed
out information cards on the uyahoga Vets App and brochures. The budget was discussed along
with other programs and the Safety Law Enforcement/Firefighters information was distributed by
Safety Chairman Uzell. A new VFW Jr. Vice was elected.

0 August 15?? I attended the open public meeting.

0 August 19?? I attended the VFW Post 7536 picnic held at one of our Auxiliary member?s home
in Gates Mills, Ohio. There was a good turnout and everyone had a good time.

0 August 20?? I attended the VFW Post 7536 meeting in Ohio. We discussed Post
business and I welcomed three new transfer members; two Vietnam Veterans and one Gulf War

Veteran.
0 August 22?d I attended the Level appeals hearings.
0 August 25?? I attended a funeral service for long-time VFW Department of Ohio Historian,

Leroy Clendenen, at Cotner Funeral Home in Reynoldsburg, Ohio, outside of Columbus. I took
part in the ?nal ritual with Department of Ohio of?cers.

0 August 315? I attended a Gold Star Families Memorial Monument Dedication at the Louis Stokes
VA Medical Center. Speakers included US. Dept., of Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert Wilkie,
US. Navy Under-Secretary Thomas B. Modley, and CWO4 Hershel ?Woodie? Williams, the last
Medal of Honor recipient Iwo Jima, WWII and others. The monument is beautiful and it was an
emotional ceremony.

Bob Potts VVA

0 Chapter 249 did not conduct board or membership meetings during the month of August.
I attended both public meetings and both Level appeal hearings in August.

I visited staff at the Parma CBOC and Wade Park.

September Chapter 249 could not conduct a meeting due to not having a quorum.

OLD BUSINESS:
None.

NEW BUSINESS:

A motion was made by Mel Baher and seconded by Frank Pocci to approve Resolution 2018-13
requesting that the County Executive set the compensation for the newly appointed or reappointed

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886? Internet 0 

Veterans Service Commissioner representing the Vietnam Veterans of America (VVA), for appointment
commencing January 1, 2019 and ending December 31, 2023, as mandated in ORC Title 5901.02.
AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

Discussion on Team Depot was deferred to the next public meeting due to the absence of the Executive
Director.

GOOD OF THE ORDER:

Clay Uzell will be participating in the Home Days Parade on Sunday, September 9, 2018, at
12:00 pm, and a ?ag raising ceremony afterward, commemorating the 15th anniversary of the 9-11
terrorist attacks.

Clay Uzell and I on Reiss attended a ceremony dedicating the Gold Star Families Memorial Monument at
the Cleveland Louis Stokes VA HOSpital on August 31, 2018. The monument is part of a campaign by
Hershel ?Woody? Williams, to have similar markers placed in communities across the country. Hershel
Williams is the last surviving Marine awarded a Medal of Honor during WWII.

Frank Pocci attended the annual D-Day event in Conneaut, Ohio on August 17th, and thought that the
back pack handouts, containing several VSC county items, were a great marketing idea.

With no further business, a motion was made by Mel Baher and seconded Chris Grau to adjourn the

meeting at 10:21a.m.
AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

1L WK Wl/

BoldPotts, President/j; Mel Baher, Secretary

CONTACT INFORMATION
Requests for Financial Assistance/
Filing claims with the Dept. of

Veterans? Affairs/Memorial Affairs: Melinda Halliburton, Service Office Mgr. (216?698-263 9)
Finance Department: Steve Fernandez, Finance Operations Mgr. (216-698-2391)
Social Work Dept: Terry Walker, Social Worker/Case Mgmt.) (216?698-2379)
Executive Director: Jon Reiss (216-698-2611)

Commissioners: Lorri Slivka, Secretary to the Board (216-698-2646)

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886? Internet 0 

