 

American Legion

MEL BAHER
COMMISSIONER

JON REISS




PRESENT:

EXCUSED:

VISITORS:

PURPOSE:

   

American Veterans [Disabled American Veterans Veterans oflioreign Wars

FRANK POCCI CIIRISTOPH ER CLAYTON E. UZICLL
COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER
Cuyahoga County

Veterans Service Commission

Pli: 216.698.2600 0 Fax: 216.698.2650
Email: vscmail@cuyahogacounty.us

1849 Prospect Avenue 0 Suite 150 0 Cleveland, OH 441 15

MINUTES

March 6, 2019 9:30 am.

Clay Uzell, President

Mel Baher, Vice President

Christopher Grau, Secretary

Frank Pocci, Commissioner

Bob Potts, Commissioner

Jon Reiss, Executive Director

Mary Kitko, Executive Secretary

Brian Gutkoski, Asst. County Prosecutor

None

None

GENERAL MEETING

 

Vietnam Veterans oI?Amei-iea

BOB POTTS
COMMISSIONER

The meeting was called to order by President Clay Uzell followed by the Pledge of Allegiance.

A motion was made by Frank Pocci and seconded by Bob Potts to dispense with the reading of the
Consent Agenda and to accept the agenda with the necessary corrections and/or additions. (All

Commissioners have a copy of the minutes.)

discussion in Executive Session.
AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

COMMISSIONERS REPORTS:

Christopher Grau DAV

0 February 6th I attended the public meeting.

0 February 13th The Appeals Meeting was cancelled no appeals.

0 February 19?? I provided referral of Thomas Henry Clyde, USA, Korean War Vet (deceased, for
son Michael) for assistance in obtaining Purple Heart.

0 February 19?h I recused myself from the JVC meeting pending outcome of confidential VSC

administrative matter.

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886?

Several items from correspondence were set aside for

Internet I 

a February 21St I attended DAV Chapter 108 meeting.
0 February 23rd I attended the new VSC Commissioner training in Westerville, Ohio.
0 February 27?? I attended the Appeals meeting.

Frank Pocci AMVETS
I gave the financial report for Post 80 on March 
The honor guard served funeral duties at the Ohio Western Reserve Cemetery.
0 Plans are being made for dinner to honor the Post honor guard in the spring.
0 I attended the funeral ofa deceased AMVETS member.
Other Activities

0 During February I attended all the scheduled CCV SC meetings.

0 I attended the Italian American War ?Veterans (ITAM) meeting. As finance officer I
also completed and presented our financial report.

0 I visited the Parma CBOC as well as the Wade Park Veterans hospital and visited with a
veteran and former employee of the there. He was extremely happy with the care he
is receiving at the hospital.

I I attended the February meeting ofthe Catholic War Veterans.

AMVETS NEWS AMVETS National Headquarters, March 4, 2019 Prior to AMVETS annual
?Storm the Hill? (a week?long legislation advocacy event on Capitol Hill) meetings, the organization hired
former military fellow and Navy veteran Thomas I-Iimes t0 the position of National Legislative Associate.

Himes attended basic training just weeks before the attacks on September 11. After several years, his
naval service brought him to the Middle East, where he served as a small boat engineer, accompanying
SEAL Team 4 on search and seizure operations. He was also among those dispatched to shore up security
in the aftermath of an attack on Iraq?s oil terminals. After leaving the Navy, Himes turned to a career in
journalism. He earned his Bachelor?s Degree from the University of and became an
investigative reporter for newspapers in Los Angeles and Florida. As waves of veterans returned home
from the wars abroad, he wrote reports that drew attention to their struggles. His work exposing
government corruption and injustice led to him receiving journalism awards and community recognition.

Bob Potts VVA

0 February 5th the Chapter 249 Board and Membership meeting decision was made to investigate
moving Chapter home to American Legion 385 Bay Village.

a February I attended open public meeting.

0 February 13?? appeals meeting cancelled.

- February 20?" I attended open public meeting

0 February 27?h - I attended appeals meeting.

0 March 151 I attended the wake of Alan Valenzeno who was a classmate and Vice President of
Chapter 249.

0 March 2?"l I attended Al?s funeral.

0 March 4?h I attended Al?s internment at Rittman National Cemetery.

0 March 7?h Moved Chapter home at American Legion Post 385 at 7 p.111.

Mel Baher American Legion
I attended all scheduled meetings of the during the month of February 2019. Following is
a report of my activities outside of the Cuyahoga County Veterans Service Commission for the
month of February 2019.

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886? Internet 0 

0 Wednesday, February 6th I attended the American Legion 13?? District Council meeting held at
American Legion Post 304, in Gar?eld Hts, Ohio. The meeting began at 7:30 pm. I presented
the executive board approved financial reports for December 2018, as District Finance Of?cer.

0 Thursday, February 14th I attended the American Legion Post 91 membership meeting. The
meeting began at 7:00 pm. and I presented the current membership report, as Post 15? Vice
Commander.

a Sunday, February 24?? departed for Washington, DC to attend the American Legion National
Winter Conference, held at the Washington Hilton hotel.

a Monday, February 25?? A As an American Legion National appointee, I attended the National
Security Council meeting held from 9:00 am. to 3:30 pm.

0 Tuesday, February 26?? I was on Capitol Hill visiting Ohio District Representative Marcy
Kaptur. Our American Legion group discussed issues important to Veterans that needed
consideration by Congress in its 116?? assembly. We also met with Ohio District Robert
Lattas? Legislative Assistant Mike Davin to go over the same issues. I returned home Tuesday
evening.

0 Thursday, February 28?? 1 attended the American Legion Post 91 executive board meeting at
7:00 pm. I presented an updated membership report, as Post 15? Vice Commander.

0 Monday, February 25th Was the scheduled American Legion 13?? District Executive board
meeting however, I was unable to attend due to my trip to Washington, DC.

Clay Uzell VFW

0 February 6th I attended the first Open Public meeting.

a February 6th I attended the VFW Auxiliary Past Presidents Dinner at Antonio?s Restaurant in
Parma.

0 February 10?? I attended the VFW Post 7536 meeting. We went over programs covered during
the year, nominations of Post Officers coming up at the next meeting, and gave the Auxiliary
$300.00 toward Patriots Pen contest awards.

0 February 20th - I attended the open public meeting.

0 February 27th - I attended the Level Appeals meeting.

-I made 14 hospital visits and 2 nursing home visits.
-I referred one client to the CBOC.

OLD BUSINESS:
1. The Director left two messages for a former employee who received an overpayment, but did not
receive a call back. The situation will be referred back to the County Prosecutor.

NEW BUSINESS:
1. The Executive Director presented the 2020 Budget. The Budget was reviewed. The Board

advised the Executive Director to prepare for an increase of up to 7.5% in pay for all employees.
Final decision will be made by December of 2019. The Board will review additional budget items

prior to submission to County Council.
2. The Executive Director presented the Board with recommended organizational changes. Further

discussion will take place in Executive Session.

GOOD OF THE ORDER:
None.

EXECUTIVE SESSION:

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886? Internet 0 

A motion was made by Mel Baher and seconded by Chris Grau to go in to Executive Session to consider

employment, discipline and/or dismissal of a public employee.
AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried. (10:46 am.)

The Board came out of Executive Session and returned to the regular order of business at 1 1:30 am.

In Executive Session personnel issues were discussed and the Executive Director was instructed on how
to proceed.

A motion was made by Mel Baher and seconded by Frank Pocei to refuse the email resignation of the
Financial Operations Manager and proceed with dismissal.
AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocei, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

A motion was made by Frank Pocei and seconded by Bob Potts to reclassify the position of Financial
Operations Manager from classi?ed to unclassified pursuant to Ohio Revised Code 
AYES: Baher, Grau, Poeci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

A motion was made by Mel Baher and seconded by Frank Pocei to select Charlene Amos for the position
of Service Department Manager, effective March 6, 2019. This position will carry a probationary period
of 180 days, but will be reviewed after 90 days. Ms. Amos will begin reporting to main office on March
18, 2019.

AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

A motion was made by Bob Potts and seconded by Frank Pocei to adopt the new Organizational Chart as

presented with changes.
AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocei, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

The Board conducted interviews for the position of County Veterans Service Officer.

A motion was made by Mel Baher and seconded by Frank Pocei to select Jeffrey T011 and Jeffrey Goforth
as County Veterans Service Officers and to bring them on board immediately.
AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocei, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

National Association of County Veteran Service Officer training will be held in Cleveland in June. The
Executive Director recommended that all VSC offices close during training so all employees may attend.

With no further business, a motion was made by Bob Potts and seconded by Chris Grau to adjourn the

meeting at 12:16 pm.
AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocei, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

   

CONTACT INFORMATION
Requests for Financial Assistance/
Filing claims with the Dept. of
Veterans? Affairs/Memorial Affairs: Melinda Halliburton, Service Of?ce Mgr. (216-698?2639)

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886? Internet 0 

Finance Dept: Steve Fernandez, Finance Operations Mgr. (216-698?2391)

Social Work Dept: Terry Walker, Social Worker/ Case Mgmt.) (216-698-2379)
Executive Director: Jon Reiss (216-698-2611)
Commissioners: Mary Kitko, Secretary to the Board (216-698-2651)

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886? Internet 0 

