 

American Legion

MEL BAIIER
COMMISSIONER

JON REISS
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR



PRESENT:

EXCUSED:
VISITORS:

PURPOSE:

 

American Veterans Disabled American Veterans Veterans of Foreign Wars

FRANK POCCI CHRISTOPHER GRAU CLAYTON E. UZELL
COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER
Cuyahoga County

Veterans Service Commission

Ph: 216.698.2600 0 Fax: 216.698.2650
Email: vscmaiI@cuyahogacounty.us

1849 Prospect Avenue 0 Suite 150 0 Cleveland, OH 441 IS

MINUTES
October 2, 2019 9:30 am.

Clay Uzell, President

Mel Baher, Vice President

Christopher Grau, Secretary

Frank Pocci, Commissioner

Bob Potts, Commissioner

on Reiss, Executive Director

Mary Kitko, Executive Secretary

eronne Williams, Administrative Coordinator
Brian Gutkoski, Asst. County Prosecutor

None.
None.

GENERAL MEETING

 

Vietnam Veterans of America

BOB POTTS
COMMISSIONER

The meeting was called to order by President Clay followed by the Pledge of Allegiance.

A motion was made by Mel Baher and seconded by Chris Grau to dispense with the reading of the
Consent Agenda and to accept the agenda with the necessary corrections and/or additions. (AII
Commissioners have a copy of the minutes.)

AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, NAYS: None. Motion carried.

COMMISSIONERS REPORTS:

Christopher Grau DAV

- September 4th attended the Public Meeting.

0 September 8th attended the 9-1-1 Memorial Ride and Ceremony.
0 September 11th The Appeals Meeting was cancelled.

0 September 11?h I attended a 9-1-1 Memorial Ceremony at the Municipal Complex, City of

Rocky River.

0 September 14th I participated in the dedication of a Veterans Memorial for the City of Avon,
Ohio with the Patriot Riders Group (PRG) Flag Line.

. September 18?? I attended the Public Meeting.

0 September 191h I attended the DAV Chapter 108 Annual Financial Audit meeting.

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886?

Internet 0 

0 September 19th I attended the DAV Chapter 109 Meeting, Rocky River, Ohio.
0 September 25th I attended the Appeals Meeting.

0 I spoke to a veteran who received assistance several years ago. He expressed his gratitude.
Note: There is no scheduled Joint Veterans Council (JVC) meetings until January 2020.

Frank Pocci AMVETS
AMVETS Post 80 Events
0 I completed the ?nancial report for Post 80 and presented the details at the meeting.
0 The honor guard continued to serve funeral honor duties at the Ohio Western Reserve Cemetery
during September. Their next service will be on October 
AMVETS Pot 80 is planning to have a special excursion at the COD submarine in the spring of
2020.
0 Post 80 attended the Day ceremonies at Conneaut and will make a donation for the continuation
of this wonderful commemorative event.
Other Activities
0 During September I attended the scheduled meetings at the and started taking the yearly
quali?cations test required by the state Department for Veterans Services in order to retain my
commissioner status. The testing will be completed in October.
a I attended the Italian American war veterans meeting in September and will attend the state
department meeting in Lorain, Ohio in October. I reviewed the ?nancial report and will be
submitting our tax reports in October. During October the of?cers will meet to determine
charitable donations that the Post will make later this year.
0 I am working with a female veteran in trying to have her ?le a claim for various disabilities. She
has been reluctant, but now seems to want to ?le.
Note: AM VETS Elects Organization ?5 First emale National Commander

August 26, 2019

American Veterans (AMVETS) elected Jan Brown to serve as the organization?s 2019-2020
National Commander during 75th Annual National Convention in Louisville, KY, August 
The election signi?es a milestone in history, as Commander Brown will be the ?rst female
Commander for the organization.

Bob Potts VVA
September 4th I attended the Public Meeting.
September 11th Appeals Meeting cancelled.
September 1811] I attended the Public Meeting.
September 20th I attended an program at American Legion 738.
September 25th I attended the Appeals Meeting.
0 September 25th - I stayed after the Appeal meeting to take on-line training with all
Commissioners.
Note: I helped a WWII veteran and his wife with questions they had about the VA health plan.

VVA Chapter 249 changed the meeting night to the 3rd Wednesday of each month. The next meeting is
October 16th at American Legion Post 385 in Bay Village.

Mel Baher American Legion
I attended all of the scheduled meetings of the during the month of September 2019.
Following is a report of my activities outside of the Cuyahoga County Veterans Service
Commission for the month of September 2019.

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886? Internet 0 

0 Sunday, September 8th I attended the American Legion 131h District Council Fall Conference
held at American Legion Post 703 in Parma, Hts., Ohio. I presented the executive board approved
July 2019 Finance report as District Finance Of?cer.

0 Wednesday, September 11?h I was master of ceremonies for the eighteenth annual Patriot Day
Commemoration held on the Berea triangle at 9:00 AM. Speakers included the Mayor, Police
Chief, and the Chief of the Berea Fire Department. The event was well attended.

0 Thursday, September I attended the American Legion Post 91 membership meeting. The
meeting began at 7:00 pm. and I presented the current membership report, as Post 1St Vice
Commander.

0 Friday, September 201h I attended and participated in the reading of names for the annual
ceremony held on the Post 91 pavilion at 7:00 PM.

0 Monday, September 23rd I attended the American Legion 13?h District Executive Board meeting,
held at American Legion Post 703, in Parma Hts., Ohio. The meeting began at 7:30 pm. I
presented the August 2019 ?nance report for executive board approval, as District Finance
Of?cer.

0 Thursday, September 26th I attended American Legion Post 91 executive board meeting held at
7:00 pm. I presented an updated 2020 membership report as First Vice Commander.

Clay Uzell VFW

0 September 4th I attended the open public meeting.

I September 8"1 I drove the van in the Home Days parade. A re-dedication of
the Veterans monument in the park was held, remembering all veterans and ?rst responders for
their sacri?ce to our Nation and communities. The ?ag raising ceremony was conducted by the
Cuyahoga County Sherriff?s Department. Brush High School band played the National Anthem
and the Mayor of led the Pledge of Allegiance. Taps played as the events of 9/11, and
all veterans who gave their lives for us to live free, were remembered.

I September 11th Commissioners were off in order to attend 9/11 remembrance
ceremonies.

0 September 18th - I attended the open public meeting.

0 September 20th 1 represented the Commissioners at services for an employee?s son who passed
away. Services were held at Schulte, Mahon, Murphy Funeral Home in Ohio.

0 September 25th attended the Appeals Meeting and on?line training.

0 September 28th I attended the VFW Founders Day in Columbus, Ohio and I marched in the
parade at Greenlawn Cemetery. Guest speakers were VFW Sr. Vice Commander Hal Roesch and
Deborah Ashenhurst, Retired Major General from the Ohio Department of Veterans Services. A
luncheon followed at VFW Post 9857 in Columbus, Ohio.

OLD BUSINESS:

The Board discussed holiday food cards. There are 198 food cards on hand. The cards will be distributed
to clients who have been denied for ?nancial assistance. The cards will be distributed until the supply is
depleted and will not be replaced.

The Executive Director led another discussion about a proposed Leadership Development program.
Discussion will continue after further research.

NEW BUSINESS:

A motion was made by Mel Baher and seconded by Chris Grau to approve Resolution 2019-20 for the
purchase of training solutions through Skillsoft in order to provide employee development. Expenses not
to exceed $4,000.

AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886? Internet I 

The Executive Director discussed the option of issuing clothing cards in place of vouchers when issuing
clothing as part of ?nancial assistance. Research will be done to determine what options are available for
clothing vendors and a resolution will be presented at a future meeting.

The small conference room will be converted to a meeting space with a smart board and computer set up.
In addition to meetings, the room will be used for training purposes. Quotes for updating the Board
Room will also be obtained. Expenses for the Board Room upgrade will be covered out of the
contingency budget.

The Board meeting format will be as follows: First meeting of the month will focus on the
Commissioners? reports. The second meeting will focus on action items. The State of the Commission
report will be given in the third meeting of the month. And the ?nal meeting of each month will focus on
anything that was not covered at a previous meeting.

GOOD OF THE ORDER:
The hotel for the Commissioners Fall Conference on November 15, 2019 has been prepaid.

The Executive Secretary will be present at all interviews for employment as representative of the Board.

EXECUTIVE SESSION:

A motion was made by Mel Baher and seconded by Frank Pocci to go into Executive Session to discuss
collective bargaining and to interview candidates for County Veteran Service Officers.

AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried. (10:29 am.)

The Board came out of Executive Session and returned to the regular order of business at 1 1:36 am.
In Executive Session the Board discussed the collective bargaining process. The County will negotiate
the contract on our behalf.

A motion was made by Frank Pocci and seconded by Bob Potts to extend an offer to Nicholas
Brown, Terrance Ness, and Michael Milkovich as County Veterans Service Of?cers and to bring
them on board immediately.

AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

With no further business, a motion was made by Frank Pocci and seconded by Mel Baher to adjourn the

meeting at 11:39 am.
AYES: Baher, Grau, Picci, Potts, and Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

??/Vam/k (kl/gin?

 

 

Clay Uzell: Pik?cEnt x? rau ecretary
CONTACT INFORMATION

 

Requests for Financial Assistance/
Filing claims with the Dept. of
Veterans? Affairs/Memorial Affairs: Charlene Amos, Service Of?cer Mgr. (216-698-3831)
Melinda Halliburton, Service Of?ce Mgr. (216-698-2639)

Finance Dept.: Larry Amato, Financial Operations Mgr. (216-698-2391)
Social Work Dept.: Terry Walker, Social Worker/Case Mgmt. (216-698-2379)
Executive Director: Jon Reiss (216?698?261 1)

Commissioners: Mary Kitko, Secretary to the Board (216-698-2651)

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886? Internet I 

