892

CLEVELAND PUBLIC LIBRARY
Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting
June 18, 2019
Trustees Room
Louis Stokes Wing
12:00 Noon
Present: Ms. Butts, Mr. Seifullah, Mr. Corrigan,
Ms. Rodriguez, Mr. Hairston, Ms. Washington,
Mr. Parker
Absent:

None

Ms. Rodriguez called the meeting to order at 12:04 p.m.
Approval of the Minutes
Mr. Corrigan moved approval of the Regular Board Meeting
of 5/16/19; and Finance Committee Meeting of 5/14/19.
Ms. Butts seconded the motion, which passed unanimously
by roll call vote.
Director Thomas acknowledged visiting librarians who
were attending the Special Libraries Association (SLA)
2019 Annual Conference, June 14-18, in Cleveland. The
SLA Annual Conference connects special librarians and
information professionals to explore the latest
challenges and trends in knowledge and information
management. Attendees had the opportunity to tour the
Library and introduce themselves to the Board.
Director Thomas thanked Dr. Michele A. L. Villagran
Assistant Professor, School of Information, San José
State University, for bringing the librarians on to
Cleveland Public Library.
Presentation: Strategic Plan Update – Tana Peckham,
Chief Marketing & Communications Officer
Before Ms. Peckham gave her Strategic Plan Update, she
stated that, as part of the Library’s paid media
partnership with WOIO and WKYC, the stations are
producing a series of human interest stories or news
vignettes about Cleveland Public Library. The minutelong segments are created and aired on those stations.

REGULAR BOARD
MEETING 5/16/19;
AND FINANCE
COMMITTEE
MEETING OF
5/14/19
Approved

 893

After Ms. Peckham stated that vignettes featuring
Director Thomas and the O’Neal Family have been aired,
she showed the recent vignette featuring Trustee
Corrigan.
Ms. Peckham stated that her Strategic Plan Update was a
continuation of the process that Sonya Pryor-Jones had
worked with the Library on. With the knowledge that was
collected in that process and other ways information was
collected has led us to this next step.
Ms. Peckham reviewed the Library’s Mission and Vision
which have not changed.
VISION: Cleveland Public Library will be the driving
force behind a powerful culture of learning that will
inspire Clevelanders from all walks of life to
continually learn, share and seek out new knowledge in
ways that are beneficial to themselves, their community
and the world.
MISSION: We are “The People’s University,” the center
of learning for a diverse and inclusive community.
However, the Values have changed and the acronym spells
CENTER: CURIOSITY ▪ EQUITY ▪ NEIGHBORHOODS ▪ TRANSFORMATION
▪ EXCELLENCE ▪ RESPECT
Ms. Peckham stated that Cleveland Public Library is “The
People’s University,” the center of learning for a
diverse and inclusive community.
CLEVELAND PUBLIC LIBRARY isn’t just any university.
We are a university that doesn’t care about your GPA.
A university that doesn’t require a standardized test.
A university that doesn’t require letters of
recommendation.
And, a university that doesn’t charge tuition.
A place you can start (or stop) your learning journey...
...At any age
...Whenever and wherever you like
Ms. Peckham stated that we provide learning experiences
that limit no one and include everyone.

 894

Ms. Peckham stated that our VALUES define what we
believe in and reflect what people can expect from the
organization:
CURIOSITY - Challenge ourselves to imagine and discover
what’s possible.
EQUITY - Eliminate barriers, create cultural awareness,
and equitable opportunities for all.
NEIGHBORHOODS - Provide inclusive, inviting, and safe
public spaces that nurture communities of learning.
TRANSFORMATION - Create and nurture a culture of
creativity and innovation.
EXCELLENCE - Be an essential asset to our communities by
providing exceptional resources, services, and programs.
RESPECT - Earn a deep connection with our community by
being inclusive, responsive, and courteous custodians of
the public's trust.
Ms. Peckham reviewed and gave definition for the
Library’s three Strategic Priorities:
LEVEL OPPORTUNITY ▪ basic needs
Removing barriers to learning and connecting people with
resources to build readiness for opportunity.
FOSTER LEARNING EXPERIENCES ▪ education
Sparking curiosity and building skills.
FACILITATE DISCOVERY ▪ inspiration
Opening possibility to pursue dreams and deepen
understanding, so learning becomes a co-created
experience.
Ms. Peckham stated that no one piece alone represents
the Strategic Plan or the organization itself. The
following work together collectively: (1) Organizational
Foundations, (2) Strategic Priorities, and (3) Goals.
Ms. Peckham gave an overview of the goals.

 895

LEVELING OPPORTUNITY


Kindergarten Readiness: Children, 0-5, will be
holistically prepared for Kindergarten with the
necessary social foundations and the necessary
math, language, literacy, and motor development
skills.



Student Success: K-12 students –whether
underprepared, prepared, or high achieving –will
have the holistic resources needed to achieve their
individual academic goals. (Align to Say YES goals)



Job Readiness: Patrons will have the necessary
skills and competencies to accomplish their
individual job or career goals.

FOSTERING LEARNING EXPERIENCES
Patrons will have access to the resources and services
needed to spark their curiosity and build their skills.
FACILITATING DISCOVERY
Patrons will have the platform to explore dreams,
experiment, and co-create their learning experience.
Mr. Hairston asked if there was any discussion around
CMSD’s third grade reading initiative.
Ms. Peckham stated that the team will look at areas such
as the third grade reading initiative. As developments
continue with Say Yes, we must make sure that we align
closely with their goals. Because we have partners who
are also working on different areas, we are determining
the role the Library will play so that we are not
duplicating services.
Director Thomas stated that this update is to give the
Board an idea of where we are currently. We still need
to work on sub goals and ultimately bring the staff in
to work on the objectives under those sub goals. Staff
will need to be involved in that decision process as
they will be held accountable in those areas.
Director Thomas stated that the Board will be invited to
join teams to work on sub goals.

 896

Ms. Peckham reviewed the timeline for the Next Steps
timeline:
June 18

Report Out to the Board
• Mission, Vision & Values
• Strategic Priorities & Goals

July–August

Convene Groups to Define
• Sub-Goals & Measures
• Strategies & Activities

July–September

Determine Organizational
Competencies
• Assess & Organize Our Capacity to
Achieve Success: Our People, Our
Partners, Our Operations

October

Report Out to the Board

September–December

Design Operational Plans
• Operationalize Our Goals &
Objectives, Enabling Activities

In response to Ms. Washington’s inquiry, Ms. Peckham
stated that a date to announce the Strategic Plan can be
decided after the Report Out to the Board in October.
Director Thomas explained that this process has been
delayed. In addition to the Strategic Plan, we have
been working on the Master Plan as well as the 150th
Anniversary. Now that the Master Plan has been
completed and the 150th Anniversary is in progress, more
attention can be given to the Strategic Plan.
In response to Ms. Washington’s inquiry, Director Thomas
stated that both the Master Plan and Strategic plan will
feed into each other.
Presentation: DEI Recommendations for Facilities Master
Plan – Jeremiah Swetel, Chief Operations, Officer and
Cassandra Johnson, Consultant
Mr. Swetel stated that this presentation will give an
overview of the Supplier Diversity Program as it relates
to the Facilities Master Plan. The foundation is a
result of the discussion we have had about how to
incorporate language in the Plan moving forward in our

 897

Design and Professional Services Request for
Qualifications and the overall plan on how we propose to
spend bond proceeds for the Master Plan to ensure that
we have the most diverse and inclusive group possible.
In his introduction, Mr. Swetel stated that the Library
has engaged Cassandra Johnson, Consultant, who is a
professional in the construction industry and has
considerable first-hand experience helping organizations
build supplier diversity programs.
Ms. Johnson thanked the Board for the opportunity to
attend today’s Board Meeting to share information and
answer any questions.
Ms. Johnson gave an overview of her background that
included: 30 years of construction experience; has done
approximately one billion worth of hands-on construction
including hospitals, public transportation, public
housing and corporate real estate. Ms. Johnson
explained that with this experience she has tag-teamed
with diversity programs.
Ms. Johnson stated that she
spent around 10 years at University Hospitals and at
that time did the Vision 2010 Program. This plan became
the foundation on how other organizations in the City of
Cleveland are now doing diversity and inclusion.
Similar to the Library, a lot of good work was done but
there is more to do.
Ms. Johnson stated that she recognizes the milestones
and timelines of the capital project and the necessity
of tying this program to them so that they are not
delayed. The first step was to get the language into the
RFQ process so that the document could be released.
Ms. Johnson acknowledged the team that consists of Joyce
Dodrill, Sadie Winlock and Jeremiah Swetel and stated
that although the work is challenging, the commitment
among the team is evident.
Ms. Johnson stated that she requested several documents
from the Library to help her understand the business of
the Library. The South Branch Project was generally
used as the basis of her recommendations. Ms. Johnson
explained that the policies that she is proposing is
based on feedback from conversations with Library staff
as well as from her experience outside of this

 898

organization. Ms. Johnson stated that she recommends
that these policies can be appropriately vetted in the
DEI Committee that Ms. Dodrill and Ms. Winlock are
putting in place.
Ms. Johnson stated that for the next steps, we look at
the current successes and investigate how they can be
leveraged. Although we do not have to start from
scratch, the Library should not stand on its laurels.
The Library should continue to recognize that it wants
to do more. Ms. Johnson stated that this work is hard
and applauded the Library for taking on this challenge
of which she is excited to be a part.
Mr. Swetel reviewed the recommendations from Ms.
Johnson’s report and stated that Ms. Johnson would be
available should the Board have questions.
1. Increase the Library’s annual utilization of
Minority Business Enterprises (MBE) & Female
Business Enterprises (FBE) consistent with the
availability of MBE/FBEs in the Library’s
geographic market.
2. Explore conducting a disparity study of the
Library’s historical spend with available MBE/FBEs
in the Library’s geographical market to determine
the extent of underutilization.
3. Identify and eliminate procedural and
administrative barriers limiting MBE/FBEs full
participation in the Library’s contracting and
purchasing program.
4. Provide MBE/FBEs with greater access to CPL
leadership by establishing Mentor - Protégée
relationships with MBE/FBE owners/leaders.
5. Provide internship opportunities for minority
students and early-careerists.
In agreement with Ms. Johnson, Mr. Swetel stated that
the Library should give these recommendations thorough
review and analysis.
Mr. Swetel stated that the RFQ is soon to be published
and one of Ms. Johnson’s recommendation is that the

 899

Library host a Pre-Proposal Meeting for design firms and
professionals. An invitation will be sent to those on a
list that is as inclusive and diverse as possible to
attract all of the firms that would be potentially
interested in the Library’s design for the Facilities
Master Plan.
Mr. Swetel explained that this Pre-Proposal Meeting
could serve as a meet and greet to help connect smaller
firms with larger firms who may wish to explore
partnerships. The Pre-Proposal Meeting would also
provide the opportunity for the Library more importantly
to explain the public process to those who may not
understand and otherwise may not submit a proposal for
this project.
Mr. Swetel stated that we want to explain our process so
that there is a shared understanding of what that is.
This will help those who chose to submit proposals to
feel confident that they are providing the right
materials and information so that they can have a
successful proposal submission to the Library.
Ms. Johnson stated that she has seen success with this
outreach. Other organizations have said that although
projects go out and they believe that everyone has equal
access to that information, unfortunately, there are
some companies who have had months to consider the
opportunity, but often minority companies, for various
reasons, may not find out about the opportunity until
perhaps one week before the date of submission. This
outreach will help bring minorities into the process
much earlier to help ensure more success.
In Ms. Winlock’s absence, Mr. Swetel reported that an
internal DEI Committee has been formed and two workshops
have been held. The work of this committee continues to
evolve with additional homework assignments that are to
be completed prior to each meeting. In addition,
professionals from the construction industry have been
identified to participate in the Supplier Diversity
Committee. This committee will meet to discuss the
process and how to make it better.
Ms. Johnson and Mr. Swetel were available to answer any
questions the Board may have had.

 900

In response to Ms. Washington’s inquiry, Mr. Swetel
stated that the RFQ should be published tomorrow that
will include language changes, as recommended by Ms.
Johnson, based on her review of the structure of the
South Branch RFQ. The intent is to impress upon firms
that traditionally submit on Library projects that
partnering with minority own organizations would be a
benefit as diversity and inclusion is a strong priority
for the Library. Those sorts of language policies are
identified throughout the RFP.
Ms. Johnson stated that she understood that the Library,
in its past, has used the City of Cleveland’s program
and its goals as a basis. The Library has not only met
some of those goals but exceeded some of them. When tied
to some of the recommendations in the document, this
clarifies what is important to the Library from the
diversity and inclusion stand point. The language
indicates that there are points available for those
organizations who are more creative in getting those
answers. Although no one is penalized, those points are
available.
Ms. Johnson added that the recommendations also include
changes to the score card. We want to make sure that
each area is objectively evaluated in a transparent way
in the process. The old process used by the Library and
other organizations leave a lot of room. The new score
card ties you directly: did this company meet the
standard? Although you will compare them to other
companies, did this company meet the standard?
In
tandem, we are hoping to make the process as fair, open
and transparent as possible.
In response to Ms. Washington’s inquiry, Ms. Johnson
stated that the fact that the Library has had some
successes indicates that the thinking is here, people
understand its importance and the Library has formed
partnerships with some of the companies that we want to
reach out to. Part of this is a marketing piece and we
are indicating to others that we do have a history and
we are trying to take this to the next level. This is
one of the things that the Library has done well.
Ms. Johnson continued and stated that where we want to
see improvement is in the intentionality of the process.
Unfortunately, when minorities are at the table, the

 901

rules become very strict. Like other organizations, the
Library has this opportunity to be more intentional.
The further we can get to that, the better the Library’s
credibility that we have with the minority business
organizations and the majority firms. Losing a couple of
points during the scoring process will cause a majority
firm to give that area more attention on the next round.
Intentionality is what we would like to move forward
with just as with similar organizations.
Mr. Hairston stated that he was pleased with this
presentation and noted that the Library has had
fantastic successes. The Pre-Proposal Meeting will give
the Library a chance to inform minority firms of this
opportunity in a more sincere way.
Mr. Hairston indicated that he has heard from some
individuals from that arena that meetings with majority
firms have already been held. Mr. Hairston stated that
as a Library, including everybody is great but does not
want the majority to take precedent over the minority.
In response to Mr. Hairston’s inquiry, Mr. Swetel stated
that Glen Shumate is one of the individuals the Library
will reach out to prior to the meeting to make sure to
get the most representative pool of attendees at the
Pre-Proposal Meeting. Discussions have been held with
Ms. Johnson about how to best structure the two hour
meeting. We will also be reaching out to Chris Nance and
others to identify minority owned professional design
firms and other firms to attend the Pre-Proposal
Meeting.
Director Thomas stated that Glen Shumate sits on of Ms.
Winlock’s committees.
Ms. Johnson stated that she has known Mr. Shumate for
several years and he will be invaluable to the process
because of his intricate involvement in the construction
community.
Ms. Johnson stated that the team has had a very robust
conversation on the topic of leveling the playing field.
For some, leveling the playing field says don’t do so
much for minorities. For others, leveling the playing
field says that we are already behind; what do we do to
bring them up to level the playing field. After several

 902

alternatives were discussed, the team agreed on the PreProposal Meeting as a starting point. The next step is
to determine the agenda. The recommendation list
recognizes that in order for them to be successful, it
is important for them to build a relationship with the
Library’s Leadership Team. Some of those things happen
naturally with majority firms. We are trying to figure
out how to build those relationships with firms that we
don’t normally build relationships with. By doing so, we
believe that this will help level the playing field. How
this is accomplished in this first meeting is very
important. We must figure out how to engage the minority
community and let them know that we are serious and how
to engage the majority community to let them know that
we are serious about this process. This is neither an
initiative nor a project but the way we do business.
Mr. Hairston stated he was very familiar with the
University Hospitals project and that it was said that
the project could never be done with minorities and that
it would be over budget because they cost too much. Mr.
Hairston stated that he understood that this quality
project came under budget and on time.
Ms. Johnson stated that she shared with the Executive
Leadership Team that for the 30 years that she has been
doing this work, she has never spent more money to hire
a minority company and have never extended a timeline to
get work done. Ms. Johnson noted that there seems to be
an urban myth that if you engaged a minority company on
a project there would be detrimental effects on your
work. The assumption is that if you are at the table and
you have a contract then you are qualified.
Ms. Johnson stated that there were not a lot of
companies that could do hospital work because it is a
very specialized area like some of the specialties at
the Library. However, minority companies who did great
work in other places were identified and partnerships
were established. Ms. Johnson noted as an example Lonnie
Coleman who was given an opportunity to do a hospital
and now can do hospitals around the country. Some of
this will take extra work on the part of the Library but
that is the reality.
Mr. Corrigan agreed that the Library has a history of
success and recalled that 25 years ago Bob Madison did

 903

the Main Library and Lonnie Coleman and Dominic Ozanne
were the construction managers. In terms of Cleveland
residency goals, the Library exceeded public goals at
that time. We exceeded the prime contracting goals and
subcontracting goals. During that time, six other
projects in Cleveland were underway. The Library was
the only one to release a final report on goals. The
other six did not release reports because their reports
would have reflected that they fail to meet those goals.
This information could be encouraging to an MBE or FBE
that is interested in our project. Mr. Corrigan
requested that a summary be prepared and publicized
highlighting that accomplishment.
Ms. Johnson stated that some organizations market the
work but don’t do it. Other organizations do the work
but don’t market it. The Library does the work and
should advertise it as it helps where we are going.
Mr. Swetel stated that Mr. Shumate would like to use the
Martin Luther King, Jr. Branch project as a centerpiece
for the new ACE Mentor Program fall class.
Finally, Mr. Swetel expressed that Ms. Johnson’s
participation is a win for the Library and acknowledged
Ms. Winlock for identifying her for this work.
In response to Ms. Washington’s inquiry, Director Thomas
stated that the Library has not had a Disparity Study.
Mr. Corrigan explained that during the time the Library
was considering the Disparity Study, the County and the
City were embroiled in a dispute regarding whose study
would be done and the Library was caught in the
crossfire. An outside legal counsel advised the Library
otherwise.
Director Thomas stated that we will have a discussion
about having a Disparity Study.
Ms. Rodriguez thanked Ms. Johnson for attending the
Board Meeting and giving her presentation.
COMMUNICATIONS
There were no communications to be acknowledged.

 904

Ms. Rodriguez acknowledged Reverend Pamela Pinkney-Butts
who shared her thoughts on the following topics:
Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority Board
Meeting; East Cleveland Democratic Club Meeting; child
care, literacy and the family system. Before
concluding, Reverend Pinkney-Butts asked for assistance
to promote her book “Choose Life”.
MOTION TO TEMPORARILY SUSPEND THE REGULATIONS
Because of schedule conflicts, the Regular Board Meeting
that was scheduled for June 20, 2019 has been
rescheduled for today causing the Finance Committee
Meeting to be cancelled. Ms. Rodriguez moved to
temporarily suspend the Regulations of the Board of
Trustees in Article IX and X requiring referral of
resolutions to committees, to consider the following
resolutions. Mr. Hairston seconded the motion, which
passed unanimously by roll call vote.

MOTION TO
TEMORARILY
SUSPEND THE
REGULATIONS
Approved

FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT
Mr. Seifullah presented the following report.
Resolution to Accept Gifts for the Month of May
(See page 985)
Mr. Seifullah moved approval of the following
resolution. Ms. Butts seconded the motion, which passed
unanimously by roll call vote.
WHEREAS, The Board receives gifts of moneys, library
service materials and technology resources from generous
citizens from time to time; and
WHEREAS, Attached to this Resolution is the Gift Report
itemizing the gifts received by the Library for the
month of May of 2019; now therefore be it
RESOLVED, That the gifts described in the Gift Report
for May of 2019 be accepted upon the conditions
connected with said gifts in accordance with Section
3375.40(K) of the Ohio Revised Code.

RESOLUTION TO
ACCEPT GIFTS
FOR THE MONTH
OF MAY 2019
Approved

 905

RESOLUTION TO
ACCEPT THE
STATE LIBRARY
OF OHIO
FUNDING FOR
THE OHIO
LIBRARY FOR
THE BLIND AND
PHYSICALLY
DISABLED
(OLBPD)
Approved

Resolution to Accept the State Library of Ohio Funding
for the Ohio Library for the Blind and Physically
Disabled (OLBPD)
(See pages 986-991)
Mr. Seifullah moved approval of the following
resolution. Mr. Corrigan seconded the motion, which
passed unanimously by roll call vote.
WHEREAS, Cleveland Public Library began its first
organized service to visually disabled patrons as early
as 1903; and
WHEREAS, Cleveland Public Library was designated a
regional library for the blind for northern Ohio
counties under the Federal Pratt-Smoot Act of 1931, and
under the direction of the Library of Congress; and
WHEREAS, Cleveland Public Library has provided
excellent library service to blind and physically
disabled residents needing specialized materials and
equipment and where individual libraries cannot provide
such services; and
WHEREAS, As of July 1, 2009, the State Library of Ohio
mandated Cleveland Public Library’s newly renamed Ohio
Library for the Blind and Physically Disabled its agency
to provide complete statewide services for blind and
disabled residents who are eligible for the service and
reside in any of the 88 Ohio counties; and
WHEREAS, On June 4, 2019, the State Library of Ohio
agreed to pay the Cleveland Public Library for expenses
for the period of July 1, 2019 through June 30, 2020 to
continue to administer statewide library services to
blind and physically disabled residents in an amount not
to exceed $1,508,194.00; now therefore be it
RESOLVED, That the Board of Library Trustees accepts the
State Library of Ohio funding award of $1,274,194.00 to
be paid from the General State Revenue Fund, $150,000.00
to be paid from FFY 2018 LSTA carryover funds and
$84,000.00 to be paid from FFY 2019 LSTA funds; and be
it further

 906

RESOLVED, That the President of the Board, or the
Executive Director, CEO or his designee, is authorized
to enter into an agreement with the State Library of
Ohio for the funding, and to execute such other
agreements and instruments as may be necessary or
appropriate, including those in excess of $25,000.00, to
effectuate the terms and conditions of this Resolution,
which agreements and instruments shall be subject to the
approval of the Library’s Chief Legal Officer; and be it
further
RESOLVED, That the Board of Library Trustees expresses
its appreciation to the State Library of Ohio.
Mr. Corrigan stated that the budget currently before the
State Legislature does not increase these funds. Their
status is frozen from where they were before the last
biennium. This means that our staff and our obligations
to do these statewide services is being done with the
same amount of money as two years ago and the same as
the two years before that. Mr. Corrigan requested that
during conversations with state legislators, they should
be reminded that we do not take care of our blind and
physically disabled as well as we’d like to be able to
think that we do.
Resolution Regarding Library Insurance Renewals
Mr. Seifullah moved approval of the following
resolution. Mr. Corrigan seconded the motion, which
passed unanimously by roll call vote.
WHEREAS, The Library’s insurance policies for property,
general liability, commercial auto, commercial crime,
cyber liability, umbrella, excess liability, and public
officials and employment practices liability coverage,
expire on August 1, 2019; and
WHEREAS, On September 21, 2017, the Board of Library
Trustees authorized the renewal of the insurance
packages stated within the Resolution for four, one-year
renewal periods commencing on August 1, 2018, provided
terms, conditions, and pricing remain comparable to the
current programs and consistent with then current market
conditions; and

RESOLUTION
REGARDING
LIBRARY
INSURANCE
RENEWALS
Approved

 907

WHEREAS, The 2018-2019 expiring premiums, including the
mid-year changes, for the Library’s insurance policies
total $406,914; and McGowan Insurance, the Library’s
insurance broker, estimates that the cost of renewing
the Library’s insurance policies for one year will cost
approximately $447,688, which is an increase in cost of
approximately 10.02% over the premium for the 2018-2019
policy; and
WHEREAS, This increase is due primarily to an estimated
17% increase for commercial auto due to adding four new
vehicles, which is almost a 10% increase in exposure,
along with a 7% increase in rate and an estimated 12.86%
increase for public officials and employment practices
liability coverage given recent claims history; and
WHEREAS, McGowan Insurance is working with underwriters
and may be seeking proposals from other carriers for
public officials and employment practices liability
coverage, but will not have renewals and proposals in
time for the June Board meeting; and
WHEREAS, Library Administration has determined it to be
in the best interests of the Library to obtain
additional proposals or options for the above-described
policies and to select the policy with the most
favorable terms to the Library while continuing coverage
without interruption; now therefore be it

RESOLUTION TO
AMEND
AGREEMENT
WITH
INTEGRATED
PRECISION
SYSTEMS INC.
FOR
MAINTENANCE
OF PEOPLE
COUNTING
HARDWARE,
SOFTWARE,
AND FIRMWARE
Approved

RESOLVED, That the Board of Trustees authorizes the
Executive Director. CEO or his designee, to make the
final determination to accept the insurance package that
provides the best coverage for the lowest overall cost,
for a total annual premium for all policies not to
exceed $447,688, and the coverage purchased will be
presented for ratification by the Board of Library
Trustees at their next regularly scheduled meeting.
Resolution to Amend Agreement with Integrated Precision
Systems Inc. for Maintenance of People Counting
Hardware, Software, and Firmware
(See page 992)
Mr. Seifullah moved approval of the following
resolution. Mr. Hairston seconded the motion, which

 908

passed with six in favor and one abstention by Ms.
Washington.
WHEREAS, On February 21, 2019, this Board of Trustees
adopted a resolution authorizing the Library to enter
into an agreement with CT Consultants, Inc. to perform
landscape architecture services for the design of
improvements to the Eastman Reading Garden (the
“Project”), which will include lighting and WIFI
upgrades, new site furnishings, replacement of
plantings, irrigation, and hardscape repairs; and
WHEREAS, CT Consultants has completed the design and
construction drawings and has estimated the total cost
of the Project to be $476,106 including cost of
construction, general conditions, change order
contingency and fixtures, furniture, and equipment. The
Library is requesting that the Board approve a total
Project budget of $526,106 which includes the $50,000
for CT Consultant’s design fees previously approved by
this Board; and
WHEREAS, The Library is bound
Section 3375.41 which requires
be used to select a contractor
projects costing over $50,000;

by Ohio Revised Code
that competitive bidding
for all construction
and

WHEREAS, In the interests of time, the Library has
already begun the process of advertising the bids, and
bids are required to be submitted to the Library on May
28, 2019; and
WHEREAS, The terms and conditions of the Beard
Endowment Fund provide that the income “be used to
purchase or provide floral and plant decorations for
display or as exhibits in any or all of the library
buildings”. The Library Administration deems this
improvement beneficial to the Library’s Eastman Reading
Garden and the Board of Library Trustees has approved
the appropriation measure for the Beard permanent fund
(503), which includes this improvement expense; now
therefore be it
RESOLVED That the Board of Trustees of the Cleveland
Public Library approves the Project budget of $526,106
for the construction of improvements to the Eastman
Reading Garden and authorizes the Fiscal Officer to use

 909

Beard Endowment funds in the amount not-to-exceed
$100,000, charged to the Beard Endowment Fund 503,
deemed beneficial to improve the Library’s Eastman
Reading Garden, and $426,106 charged to the Building and
Repair Fund 401; and be it further
RESOLVED That the Board of Trustees approves
competitive bidding for the construction of this
Project.
RESOLUTION TO
AUTHORIZE
DIRECTOR TO
NEGOTIATE AND
ENTER INTO
GAS AND
ELECTRIC
CONTRACTS TO
TAKE EFFECT
AFTER
EXPIRATION OF
CURRENT
CONTRACTS
Approved

Resolution to Authorize Director to Negotiate and Enter
Into Gas and Electric Contracts to Take Effect After
Expiration of Current Contracts
Mr. Seifullah moved approval of the following
resolution. Mr. Parker seconded the motion, which
passed unanimously by roll call vote.
WHEREAS, On August 9, 2018 the Board of Library
Trustees ratified the natural gas agreement entered into
by the Executive Director on June 19, 2018 with
Volunteer Energy Services, Inc. at the rate of $2.79 per
Mcf for a 12 month term from November 1, 2018 through
October 31, 2019; and
WHEREAS, On January 18, 2018 the Board of Library
Trustees ratified the agreement entered into by the
Library on December 21, 2017 with Dynegy Energy
Services, LLC for electricity at the rate of $4.400 per
kWh for a 24 month term from August 2018 through August
2020; and
WHEREAS, North Shore Energy Consulting, LLC, has
notified the Library that the gas and electric rates on
the market have been dropping significantly. Gas rates
are estimated to be at or below $3.16 per Mcf for a 12month agreement and $3.19 per Mcf for a 24-month
agreement. This is higher than our current contract
rate, but the current rate was offered as a special
below wholesale market price by Volunteer Energy
Services, Inc. last year; and
WHEREAS, North Shore Energy Consulting, LLC, desires to
run a competitive pricing analysis to evaluate the
potential opportunity for the Library; and

 910

WHEREAS, The Library Administration is requesting
authority to negotiate a new natural gas rate and a new
electric rate to commence at the expiration of the
Library’s current gas and electric contracts in
accordance with North Shore Energy’s notification; now
therefore be it
RESOLVED, That the Board of Library Trustees hereby
authorizes the Executive Director, CEO or his designee,
to negotiate and enter into a new agreement commencing
November 2019, through North Shore Energy Consulting,
LLC, with natural gas suppliers that have the best fixed
rates for periods of time up to and including 24 months,
provided the rates do not exceed the rate of $3.16 per
Mcf, for a 12-month term or $3.19 per Mcf for a 24-month
term, which agreement shall be subject to review and
approval of the Chief Legal Officer; be it further
RESOLVED, That the Board of Library Trustees hereby
authorizes the Executive Director, CEO, or his designee,
to negotiate and enter into a new agreement commencing
August 2020, through North Shore Energy Consulting, LLC,
with electricity suppliers that have the best fixed
rates for periods of time up to and including 24 months,
provided the rates do not exceed the rates currently
being paid by the Library for electric, as described in
this Resolution, and subject to the approval of the
Chief Legal Officer; be it further
RESOLVED, That the contracts entered into will be
presented for ratification by the Board of Library
Trustees at their next regularly scheduled meeting.
Director Thomas explained that as soon as we find better
rate pricing, we will act quickly to take advantage of
the lower rates.
Resolution Accepting Bid and Awarding Contract for
Eastman Reading Garden Improvements
(See page 993)
Mr. Seifullah moved approval of the following
resolution. Mr. Hairston seconded the motion, which
passed unanimously by roll call vote.

RESOLUTION
ACCEPTING BID
AND AWARDING
CONTRACT FOR
EASTMAN
READING
GARDEN
IMPROVEMENTS
Approved

 911

WHEREAS, On May 16, 2019, the Board of Trustees of the
Cleveland Public Library approved a project budget of
$526,106 for the construction of improvements to the
Eastman Reading Garden, and authorized the Director to
proceed with the soliciting of competitive bids for
construction of the improvements; and
WHEREAS, On May 11, 2019 and May 18, 2019, a Notice to
Bidders was published in the Cleveland Plain Dealer
requesting bids for construction of improvements to the
Eastman Reading Garden; and
WHEREAS, Sealed bids were received for the Eastman
Reading Garden improvement project by 12:00 Noon (local
time) on June 4, 2019 from the following contractors:
Brookside Construction Services, Inc.; Royal Landscape
Gardening, Inc.; and Vizmeg Landscape Inc. A summary of
the amount of all base bids and alternate bid items
submitted by all bidders is attached to this Resolution.
WHEREAS, The Library Administration has tabulated the
bids received on June 4, 2019, evaluated the bids as to
compliance with the specifications and bid documents as
written, investigated responsiveness and responsibility
of the lowest bidders, and has recommended the lowest,
responsible bidder for both base bids and both alternate
bids for construction of improvements to the Eastman
Reading Garden; now therefore be it
RESOLVED, That the Board of Trustees of the Cleveland
Public Library hereby accepts the recommendation of the
Library Administration and awards a contract for both
base bid portions and both alternate bid portions of the
Eastman Reading Garden improvement project to Brookside
Construction Services, Inc. which this Board determines
is the lowest, responsible bidder for a total cost of
$219,699, with $50,000 being charged to the Beard
Endowment Fund 503 and $169,699 being charged to the
Building and Repair Fund, Account No. 40121005-5530017901; and be it further
RESOLVED, That this Board also authorizes the Library to
establish a contingency fund for this project in an
amount not-to-exceed $22,000.00 being charged to the
Building and Repair Fund Account 40121005-55300-17901,
in the event of unforeseen conditions or Library
requested changes resulting in change orders. The

 912

Library Administration shall have the authority to
approve change orders from the contingency and shall
report any change orders entered into at the next
regular meeting of the Board of Trustees; and be it
further
RESOLVED, That the Executive Director, CEO, or his
designee is hereby authorized to negotiate and execute a
contract for the above awarded bid package, and to
execute such other instruments or documents as may be
necessary or appropriate to effectuate the terms of this
Resolution, subject to the approval of the Chief Legal
Officer; and be it further
RESOLVED, That the Executive Director, CEO, or his
designee, is hereby authorized to enter into additional
contracts and make additional purchases in excess of
$25,000 for furniture, plantings and other items that
are necessary for completion of the Eastman Reading
Garden Improvements, which contracts shall be paid from
the Building and Repair Fund, Account No. 4012100555300-17901.
In response to Ms. Washington’s inquiry, Jeremiah
Swetel, Chief Operating Officer, stated that these are
not minority owned firms. Although, 85% of Brookside’s
labor force is minority, they are unable to apply for
MBE designation. We are working with Brookside about
purchasing their materials from an MBE. The Library’s
Legal Office did receive a letter today stating the
diversity composition of their labor force.
In response to Mr. Corrigan’s inquiry, Eric Herman,
Capital Projects Manager, explained that Alternate 2 is
the electrical work that had to be separated out so that
it could be bid separately. We were unsure if landscape
firms were able to connect with electrical firms to do
the bids which would mean that we would have to offer
two separate contracts. Because they were able to
partner, we accepted the alternate as a whole bid. The
bidder of record is the landscape and the electrical is
the alternate. If the electrical would have submitted,
the landscape would have been the alternate.
Richard Washington, Landscape Architect, CT Consultants,
stated that Alternate 1 is the high top bench that

 913

extends along the curve of the wall, barstool seating
and laptop chargers.
Mr. Hairston suggested that in an effort to support the
Library’s diversity and inclusion initiative,
advertising bids should not be restricted to the Plain
Dealer.
RESOLUTION
AUTHORIZING
AGREEMENT
WITH JKURTZ
ARCHITECTS
LTD FOR
DESIGN
SERVICES FOR
THE MARTIN
LUTHER KING,
JR. BRANCH
OF THE
CLEVELAND
PUBLIC
LIBRARY
Approved

Resolution Authorizing Agreement with JKURTZ Architects
LTD for Design Services for the Martin Luther King, Jr.
Branch of the Cleveland Public Library
(See pages 994-1041)
Mr. Seifullah moved approval of the following
resolution. Mr. Corrigan seconded the motion, which
passed unanimously by roll call vote.
WHEREAS, On June 15, 2018, the Board of Trustees of the
Cleveland Public Library approved the selection of SO-IL
+ JKURTZ as the top-ranked, most qualified firms to
provide design services for the design and construction
of the new Martin Luther King, Jr. Branch, and
authorized the Executive Director to enter into
negotiations for an agreement; and
WHEREAS, On August 9, 2018, the Board of Trustees of
the Cleveland Public Library authorized the Library to
enter into a preliminary agreement in an amount not-toexceed $110,025, including reimbursable expenses, with
SO-IL + JKURTZ to perform research, feedback, and
development coordination phase; and
WHEREAS, On March 21, 2019, the Board of Trustees of
the Cleveland Public Library authorized the Library to
amend the preliminary agreement to include schematic
design services through June 30, 2019 in an amount notto-exceed $409,285.00, which included a credit of
$44,200 toward schematic design; and
WHEREAS, SO-IL + JKURTZ have submitted a proposal for
the architect fees for design in the amount of
$1,389,100 plus $67,425 for reimbursables, for design
development, construction documents, bidding and
construction administration services. The architect
fee, not including the cost of predesign services and

 914

schematic design services, amounts to approximately 9.3%
of the $15,000,000 estimated cost of construction; and
WHEREAS, This Board finds that the fee is fair and
reasonable; now therefore be it
RESOLVED, That the Board of Trustees authorizes the
Executive Director, CEO or his designee, to negotiate
and execute an agreement with SO-IL Office Ltd. and/or
JKURTZ Architects Ltd., in an amount not-to-exceed
$1,456,525 ($1,389,100 plus $67,425), which added to the
cost of the preliminary agreement makes for a total cost
of $1,975,835, upon such terms and conditions as are
approved by the Library’s Chief Legal Officer, and such
other documents as are necessary or appropriate to
effectuate the agreement in accordance with this
Resolution, with the expenditure of $375,374.00 being
charged to the Building and Repair fund account
40176705-55300-10767 (Construction/Improvements). The
remainder of the agreement amount shall be paid for out
of the proceeds of the Public Library Fund Notes the
Library will be issuing.
In response to Mr. Corrigan’s inquiry, Carrie Krenicky,
Chief Financial Officer, stated that the Developer will
pay the Library $5.2 million for the current Martin
Luther King, Jr. branch site.
Mr. Corrigan stated that our new $15 million building is
roughly under $10 million for us.
Ms. Washington requested a status on the progress of the
design for the new branch.
Jeremiah Swetel, Chief Operating Officer, stated that we
have finished the schematic for the design of the
project on June 14, 2019. Currently, we are reviewing
it internally. We have sent it to Panzica, our
Construction Manager at Risk to begin the estimating
process and the constructability reviews. We have also
sent it to PCS Estimating to reconcile the estimate
received from Panzica for an accurate comparison. From
there, we will start on the design development of the
project.
Mr. Swetel stated that we will need to update the Board
on where we are with the process so that the Board can

 915

RESOLUTION
TO ENGAGE
JAROS
STRATEGY LLC
FOR CAPITAL
FUNDRAISING
CONSULTING
SERVICES
(Tabled)
RESOLUTION
AMENDING
RESOLUTION
AUTHORIZING
THIRD
AMENDMENT
WITH THE
CHILCOTE LAW
FIRM LLP FOR
LEGAL
SERVICES
RELATED TO
THE MARTIN
LUTHER KING,
JR. BRANCH OF
THE
CLEVELAND
PUBULIC
LIBRARY
Approved

have the opportunity to respond to the design as we are
still early enough in the process so that revisions can
be made based on Board and community feedback.
Resolution to Engage Jaros Strategy LLC for Capital
Fundraising Consulting Services (TABLED)
This item was tabled.
Resolution Amending Resolution Authorizing Third
Amendment With the Chilcote Law Firm LLP for Legal
Services Related to the Martin Luther King, Jr. Branch
of the Cleveland Public Library
Mr. Seifullah moved approval of the following
resolution. Mr. Corrigan seconded the motion, which
passed unanimously by roll call vote.
WHEREAS, On March 21, 2019, this Board approved a third
amendment to the agreement with Chilcote Law Firm LLP
(Agreement) in the amount of $25,000.00 to provide
additional legal services relating to the relocation and
construction of the new Martin Luther King, Jr. branch,
thus bringing the total fee under the contract to an
amount not-to-exceed $125,322.50; and
WHEREAS, Since then the Chief Legal Officer has
determined, based on developments in discussions with
the Developers and on Mr. Chilcote’s estimates of
services necessary to complete and fully negotiate
remaining documents and issues, including a revised
development agreement, construction agency agreement, a
reciprocal easement and master declaration, and other
possible documents, that the Library will need to retain
Mr. Chilcote’s services for an additional $25,000.00;
and
WHEREAS, The Chief Legal Officer is, therefore,
requesting authority to increase the amendment to the
Chilcote Law Firm LLP Agreement for an additional
$25,000, bringing the total amount of the third
amendment to $50,000.00; now therefore be it
RESOLVED, That the Board of Library Trustees hereby
amends its Resolution adopted March 21, 2019 and
authorizes the Executive Director, CEO or the Chief
Legal Officer to enter into a third amendment to the

 916

agreement with the Chilcote Law Firm to provide
additional legal services in connection with the Martin
Luther King Jr. branch relocation project in an amount
up to $50,000.00, for a total contract amount not-toexceed $150,322.50, which expenditure shall be charged
to the General Fund Account 11400053-53710 (Professional
Services), and to execute such other instruments or
documents as may be necessary or appropriate to
effectuate the terms of this Resolution, subject to the
approval of the Chief Legal Officer.
Ms. Washington stated that she supports this and
recognizes that these deals can be complex to get
through.
In response to Ms. Washington’s inquiry, Joyce Dodrill,
Chief Legal Officer, stated that Lee Chilcote is an
expert in real estate and development. Because this
project is so very complicated, it requires an expert in
terms of preparing a development agreement and we are in
the process of protecting ourselves from some of the
changes the developers want to make.
Ms. Dodrill further explained that because we have this
structure over us, we have to enter into an easement
which is a specialized expertise. Mr. Chilcote is also
an expert in financing and environmental law.
Director Thomas stated that through prior conversations,
the Board has understood that this has been very
challenging. Not only because of the space that we are
in but also the challenge of working with this group.
Ms. Dodrill stated that in addition, Mr. Chilcote is
very familiar with this group and has in the past
represented Steve Rubin as his lawyer. This uniquely
qualifies him for this project.
Mr. Corrigan stated that he has had the pleasure of
working with Mr. Chilcote 25 years ago and found him to
be an expert at that time on County and private
projects.

 917

RESOLUTION
AUTHORIZING
THE ISSUANCE
OF NOTES IN
THE AMOUNT
OF NOT TO
EXCEED
$63,000,000,
AUTHORIZING
THE
EXECUTION OF
A NOTE
PURCHASE
AGREEMENT
AND
APPROVING
THE FORM OF
OFFICIAL
STATEMENT
RELATING TO
THE NOTES
Approved

Resolution Authorizing the Issuance of Notes in the
Amount of Not to Exceed $63,000,000, Authorizing the
Execution of a Note Purchase Agreement and Approving the
Form of Official Statement Relating to the Notes
The Board of Library Trustees (the “Board”) of the
Cleveland
Public
Library
(the “Library”),
Cuyahoga
County, Ohio, met in regular session on June 18, 2019,
at 12:00 p.m., at the Louis Stokes Wing, Main Library,
525 Superior Avenue, 10th Floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44114,
with the following members present:
Mr. Alan Seifullah introduced the following resolution
and moved its passage:
AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF NOTES IN THE
AMOUNT OF NOT TO EXCEED $63,000,000 WITH A
MAXIMUM MATURITY OF 40 YEARS IN ANTICIPATION
OF LIBRARY FUND RECEIPTS FOR THE PURPOSE OF
PURCHASING,
LEASING,
CONSTRUCTING,
RENOVATING AND IMPROVING LIBRARY FACILITIES
AND REAL PROPERTY AND PAYING THE COSTS OF
OTHER PROPERTY REFERRED TO IN SECTION
3375.40(C), OHIO REVISED CODE; AUTHORIZING
THE EXECUTION OF A NOTE PURCHASE AGREEMENT
APPROPRIATE FOR THE SALE OF THE NOTES; AND
APPROVING THE FORM OF OFFICIAL STATEMENT
RELATING TO THE NOTES.
(R.C. Sections 3375.404 and 133.25)
WHEREAS, the Board is a school district public library
board of library trustees, within the meaning of Section
3375.404, Ohio Revised Code; and
WHEREAS, the Board is charged with the title, custody,
control, and maintenance of the Library; and
WHEREAS, the Board deems it necessary to borrow in
anticipation of the collection of Public Library Fund
receipts (the “Receipts”) not to exceed $63,000,000 and
to issue library fund library facilities notes (the
“Notes”) under Section 3375.404, Ohio Revised Code, for
the purpose of purchasing, leasing, constructing,
renovating and improving library facilities and real
property and paying the costs of other property referred
to in Section 3375.40(C), Ohio Revised Code; and

 918

WHEREAS, the interest rate or rates and maturity
schedule for the Notes shall be such that: (1) the
aggregate amount payable as principal of and interest on
the Notes in any calendar year shall not exceed the
aggregate amount of Receipts in that calendar year; and
(2) the maximum amount payable as principal of and
interest on the Notes in any calendar year in which the
Notes are outstanding shall not exceed $63,000,000,
which amount equals 40% of the average of the Receipts
of the Library for 2017 and 2018;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Library
Trustees of the Cleveland Public Library, Cuyahoga
County, Ohio, that:
Pursuant to Section 3375.404, Ohio Revised Code,
and in anticipation of the Receipts it is necessary to
borrow and there shall be borrowed the principal sum of
not to exceed $63,000,000, which borrowing shall be
evidenced by the Notes. The Notes shall be issued for
the purpose stated in the title of this resolution. The
Notes may be issued in one or more series.
The Notes shall be initially issued in registered
form, in such denominations as shall be determined by
the Chief Financial Officer, but not exceeding the
principal amount of Notes maturing on any one date;
shall be numbered consecutively from R-1 upward, as
determined by the Chief Financial Officer; and shall
have such final terms as shall be determined by the
Chief Financial Officer and set forth in the Certificate
of Fiscal Officer provided for in Section 3 herein.
The Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized
and directed to execute on behalf of the Board a
Certificate of Fiscal Officer Relating to Terms of Notes
(the “Certificate of Fiscal Officer”) setting forth the
aggregate principal amount of the Notes and the final
terms of the Notes, which aggregate principal amount and
terms, subject to the limitations set forth in this
resolution, shall be as determined by the Chief
Financial Officer. The Certificate of Fiscal Officer
shall identify the Original Purchaser, indicate the
dated date for the Notes (which shall not be less than
97% of the aggregate principal amount thereof), the
dates on which interest on the Notes is to be paid (the
“Interest Payment Dates”), the purchase price for the

 919

Notes, the maturity schedule for the Notes (which shall
not be longer than 40 years), the interest rate or rates
for the Notes (provided that the true interest cost for
all Notes in the aggregate shall not exceed 4.75% per
annum), the optional and mandatory redemption
provisions, if any, and such other terms not
inconsistent with this resolution as the Chief Financial
Officer shall deem appropriate including, if desired,
provision for the Receipts to be pledged and held by a
fiscal agent for payment of interest on and principal of
the Notes.
Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of
Fiscal Officer, the Notes shall be issued with interest
payable semiannually on each Interest Payment Date until
the principal sum is paid or provision has been duly
made therefor (the “Current Interest Notes”) or with
interest compounded on each Interest Payment Date but
payable only at maturity (the “Capital Appreciation
Notes”) in such proportions as shall be set forth in the
Certificate of Fiscal Officer. The Current Interest
Notes shall be in the denominations of $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof, and the Capital Appreciation
Notes shall be in the denominations on the date of their
issuance and delivery equal to the principal amount
which, when interest is accrued and compounded thereon,
beginning on the date of delivery to the Original
Purchaser (as defined hereinbelow), and each Interest
Payment Date thereafter, will equal $5,000 or any
integral multiple thereof at maturity. The Current
Interest Notes shall be dated such date as shall be
determined by the Chief Financial Officer and set forth
in the Certificate of Fiscal Officer and the Capital
Appreciation Notes shall be dated their date of delivery
to the Original Purchaser.
The Current Interest Notes shall be subject to
optional and mandatory redemption prior to stated
maturity as provided in the Certificate of Fiscal
Officer. If optional redemption of the Current Interest
Notes at a redemption price exceeding 100% is to take
place on any date on which a mandatory redemption of the
Current Interest Notes of the same maturity will take
place, the Current Interest Notes to be redeemed by
optional redemption shall be selected by the Note
Registrar (as defined hereinbelow) prior to the
selection of the Current Interest Notes to be redeemed

 920

at par pursuant to mandatory redemption on the same
date.
When partial redemption is authorized, the Note
Registrar shall select a Current Interest Note or
portions thereof by lot within a maturity in such manner
and in such denominations as the Note Registrar may
determine, provided, however, that the portion of any
Current Interest Note so selected will be in the amount
of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof.
The notice of the call for redemption of a Current
Interest Note shall identify (i) by designation,
letters, numbers or other distinguishing marks, the
Current Interest Note or portions thereof to be
redeemed, (ii) the redemption price to be paid, (iii)
the date fixed for redemption, and (iv) the place or
places where the amounts due upon redemption are
payable. From and after the specified redemption date
interest on the Current Interest Note (or portions
thereof) called for redemption shall cease to accrue.
Such notice shall be sent by first class mail at least
30 days prior to the redemption date to each registered
holder of the Current Interest Note to be redeemed at
the address shown in the Note Register (as defined
hereinbelow) on the 15th day preceding the date of
mailing. Failure to receive such notice of any defect
therein shall not affect the validity of the proceedings
for the redemption of any Current Interest Note.
The Notes shall be executed by the Chief Financial
Officer and President of the Board (the “Board
President”), provided that either of those signatures
may be a facsimile, shall be designated “Cleveland
Public Library, Library Fund Library Facilities Notes,
Series 2019”, or as otherwise determined by the Chief
Financial Officer, and shall express upon their faces
the purpose for which they are issued and that they are
issued pursuant to this resolution. No Note shall be
valid or become obligatory for any purpose or shall be
entitled to any security or benefit under this
resolution unless and until a certificate of
authentication, as printed on the Note, is signed by the
Note Registrar (as defined herein below) as
authenticating agent. Authentication by the Note
Registrar shall be conclusive evidence that the Note so
authenticated has been duly issued and delivered under
this resolution and is entitled to the security and

 921

benefit of this resolution. The certificate of
authentication may be signed by any officer or officers
of the Note Registrar or by such other person acting as
an agent of the Note Registrar as shall be approved by
the Chief Financial Officer on behalf of the Library.
It shall not be necessary that the same authorized
person sign the certificate of authentication on all of
the Notes.
The principal of and interest on the Notes shall be
payable in lawful money of the United States of America
without deduction for the services of the Note Registrar
as paying agent. The principal of the Notes shall be
payable upon presentation and surrender of the Notes at
the principal office of the Note Registrar. Each Note
shall bear interest from the later of the date thereof,
or the most recent Interest Payment Date to which
interest has been paid or duly provided for, unless the
date of authentication of any Note is less than 15 days
prior to an Interest Payment Date, in which case
interest shall accrue from such Interest Payment Date.
Interest on any Note shall be paid on each Interest
Payment Date by check or draft mailed to the person in
whose name the Note is registered, at the close of
business on the 15th day next preceding that Interest
Payment Date (the “Record Date”) (unless such date falls
on a non-business day, in which case the Record Date
shall be the preceding business day), on the Note
Register (as defined herein below) at the address
appearing therein.
Any interest on any Note that is payable, but is not
punctually paid or provided for, on any Interest Payment
Date (herein called “Defaulted Interest”) shall forthwith
cease to be payable to the registered owner on the
relevant Record Date by virtue of having been such owner
and such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the
registered owner in whose name the Note is registered at
the close of business on a date (the “Special Record
Date”) to be fixed by the Note Registrar, such Special
Record Date to be not more than 15 nor less than 10 days
prior to the date of proposed payment. The Note
Registrar shall cause notice of the proposed payment of
such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date
therefor to be mailed, first class postage prepaid, to
each Noteholder, at such Noteholder’s address as it
appears in the Note Register, not less than 10 days prior
to such Special Record Date, and may, in its discretion,

 922

cause a similar notice to be published once in a
newspaper in each place where Notes are payable, but such
publication shall not be a condition precedent to the
establishment of such Special Record Date.
Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section,
each Note delivered by the Note Registrar upon transfer
of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Note shall
carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to
accrue, which were carried by such other Note.
For purposes of this resolution, the following
terms shall have the following meanings:
“Book entry form” or “book entry system” means a
form or system under which (i) the beneficial right to
payment of principal of and interest on the Notes may be
transferred only through a book entry and (ii) physical
Notes in fully registered form are issued only to the
Depository or its nominee as registered owner, with the
Notes “immobilized” in the custody of the Depository,
and the book entry is the record that identifies the
owners of beneficial interests in those Notes.
“Depository” means any securities depository that
is a clearing agency under federal law operating and
maintaining, together with its participants, a book
entry system to record beneficial ownership of Notes,
and to effect transfers of Notes, in book entry form,
and includes The Depository Trust Company (a limited
purpose trust company), New York, New York.
All or any portion of the Notes may be initially
issued to a Depository for use in a book entry system,
and the provisions of this Section shall apply,
notwithstanding any other provision of this resolution:
(i) there shall be a single Note of each maturity; (ii)
those Notes shall be registered in the name of the
Depository or its nominee, as registered owner, and
immobilized in the custody of the Depository; (iii) the
beneficial owners in book entry form shall have no right
to receive Notes in the form of physical securities or
certificates; (iv) ownership of beneficial interests in
any Notes in book entry form shall be shown by book
entry on the system maintained and operated by the
Depository, and transfers of the ownership of beneficial
interests shall be made only by the Depository and by
book entry; and (v) the Notes as such shall not be

 923

transferable or exchangeable, except for transfer to
another Depository or to another nominee of a
Depository, without further action by the Board. Note
service charges on Notes in book entry form registered
in the name of a Depository or its nominee shall be
payable in same day funds delivered to the Depository or
its authorized representative (i) in the case of
interest, on each Interest Payment Date, and (ii) in all
other cases, upon presentation and surrender of Notes as
provided in this resolution.
The Note Registrar may, with the approval of the
Board, enter into an agreement with the beneficial owner
or registered owner of any Note in the custody of a
Depository providing for making all payments to that
owner of principal and interest on that Note or any
portion thereof (other than any payment of the entire
unpaid principal amount thereof) at a place and in a
manner (including wire transfer of federal funds) other
than as provided above in this resolution, without prior
presentation or surrender of the Note, upon any
conditions which shall be satisfactory to the Note
Registrar and the Board. That payment in any event
shall be made to the person who is the registered owner
of that Note on the date that principal is due, or, with
respect to the payment of interest, as of the applicable
date agreed upon as the case may be. The Note Registrar
shall furnish a copy of each of those agreements,
certified to be correct by the Note Registrar, to other
paying agents for Notes and to the Library. Any payment
of principal or interest pursuant to such an agreement
shall constitute payment thereof pursuant to, and for
all purposes of, this resolution.
If requested, the Chief Financial Officer, or any
other officer of this Board, including the Board
President, is authorized and directed to execute,
acknowledge and deliver, in the name of and on behalf of
the Library, the letter agreement among the Library, the
Note Registrar and The Depository Trust Company, as
depository, to be delivered in connection with the
issuance of the Notes to the Depository for use in a
book entry system in substantially the form submitted to
the Board.
The Library may decide to discontinue of the bookentry system through the Depository. In that event,

 924

Note certificates will be printed and delivered to the
Depository.
If any Depository determines not to continue to act
as a depository for the Notes for use in a book entry
system, the Library and the Note Registrar may attempt
to establish a securities depository/book entry
relationship with another qualified Depository under
this resolution. If the Library and the Note Registrar
do not or are unable to do so, the Library and the Note
Registrar, after the Note Registrar has made provision
for notification of the beneficial owners by the then
Depository, shall permit withdrawal of the Notes from
the Depository and authenticate and deliver Note
certificates in fully registered form to the assigns of
the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and
expense (including costs of printing definitive Notes),
if the event is not the result of action or inaction by
the Library or the Note Registrar, of those persons
requesting such issuance.
The Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized
and directed to serve as authenticating agent, note
registrar, transfer agent, and paying agent for the
Notes (the “Note Registrar”). If at any time the Note
Registrar shall be unable or unwilling to serve as such,
or the Chief Financial Officer in such officer’s
discretion shall determine that it would be in the best
interest of the Board for such functions to be performed
by another party, the Chief Financial Officer may, and
is hereby authorized and directed to, enter into an
agreement with a national banking association or other
appropriate institution experienced in providing such
services, to perform the services required of the Note
Registrar hereunder. Each such successor Note Registrar
shall promptly advise all Noteholders of the change in
identity and new address of the Note Registrar. So long
as any of the Notes remain outstanding, the Board shall
cause to be maintained and kept by the Note Registrar,
at the office of the Note Registrar, all books and
records necessary for the registration, exchange and
transfer of Notes as provided in this Section (the “Note
Register”). Subject to the provisions of Section 5
hereof, the person in whose name any Note shall be
registered on the Note Register shall be regarded as the
absolute owner thereof for all purposes. Payment of or
on account of the principal of and interest on any Note
shall be made only to or upon the order of that person.

 925

Neither the Board nor the Note Registrar shall be
affected by any notice to the contrary, but the
registration may be changed as herein provided. All
payments shall be valid and effectual to satisfy and
discharge the liability upon the Notes, including the
interest thereon, to the extent of the amount or amounts
so paid.
Any Note, upon presentation and surrender at the
office of the Note Registrar, together with a request for
exchange signed by the registered owner or by a person
authorized by the owner to do so by a power of attorney
in a form satisfactory to the Note Registrar, may be
exchanged for Notes of the same form and of any
authorized denomination or denominations equal in the
aggregate to the unmatured principal amount of the Notes
surrendered, and bearing interest at the same rate and
maturing on the same date.
A Note may be transferred only on the Note Register
upon presentation and surrender thereof at the office of
the Note Registrar, together with an assignment executed
by the registered owner or by a person authorized by the
owner to do so by a power of attorney in a form
satisfactory to the Note Registrar. Upon that transfer,
the Note Registrar shall complete, authenticate and
deliver a new Note or Notes of any authorized
denomination or denominations equal in the aggregate to
the unmatured principal amount of the Notes surrendered,
and bearing interest at the same rate and maturing on the
same date.
The Board and the Note Registrar shall not be
required to transfer or exchange (i) any Note during a
period beginning at the opening of business fifteen (15)
days before the day of mailing of a notice of redemption
of Notes, and ending at the close of business on the day
of such mailing, or (ii) any Notes selected for
redemption, in whole or in part, following the date of
such mailing.
In all cases in which Notes are exchanged or
transferred hereunder, the Board shall cause to be
executed and the Note Registrar shall authenticate and
deliver Notes in accordance with the provisions of this
resolution. The exchange or transfer shall be without
charge to the owner; except that the Board and Note
Registrar may make a charge sufficient to reimburse them

 926

for any tax or other governmental charge required to be
paid with respect to the exchange or transfer. The Board
or the Note Registrar may require that those charges, if
any, be paid before it begins the procedure for the
exchange or transfer of the Notes. All Notes issued upon
any transfer or exchange shall be the valid obligations
of the Board, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to
the same benefits under this resolution, as the Notes
surrendered upon that transfer or exchange.
The Notes shall be special obligations of the
Library, issued in anticipation of the Receipts, which
are hereby pledged to the payment of the Notes.
The Notes do not constitute a debt, or pledge of
the faith and credit, of the State of Ohio, the Library,
or any other political subdivision of the State of Ohio,
and the holders or owners of the Notes have no right to
have taxes levied by the General Assembly or by the
taxing authority of any political subdivision of the
State of Ohio, including the Board of the Library, for
the payment of note service charges. The Notes are
payable solely from the Receipts.
The Notes shall be, and hereby are, awarded and
sold to PNC Capital Markets (the “Original Purchaser”),
at private sale and the Chief Financial Officer of this
Board is hereby authorized and directed to deliver the
Notes, when executed, to the Original Purchaser upon
payment of the purchase price and accrued interest, if
any, to the date of delivery. The Board President and
Chief Financial Officer, or any of them individually,
are authorized and directed to execute on behalf of the
Board a Note Purchase Agreement with the Original
Purchaser, setting forth the conditions under which the
Notes are to be sold and delivered, which agreement
shall be in such form, not inconsistent with the terms
of this resolution, as the Chief Financial Officer shall
determine. The proceeds of the sale of the Notes,
except any accrued interest or premium thereon, shall be
deposited in the Treasury of the Library and used for
the purpose aforesaid and for no other purpose. Any
accrued interest received from such sale shall be
transferred to the note retirement fund to be applied to
the payment of the principal of and interest on the
Notes, as permitted by law. Any premium from the sale of
the Notes may be used to pay the financing costs of the

 927

Notes within the meaning of Ohio Revised Code Section
133.01(K) or be deposited into the note retirement fund.
In the event that the Chief Financial Officer
determines that some or all of the Notes are to be
issued as obligations the interest on which is
excludable from gross income for purposes of federal
income taxation pursuant to Section 103 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), the Board
hereby covenants that it shall comply with the
requirements of all existing and future laws which must
be satisfied in order that interest on such Notes is and
will continue to be excluded from gross income for
federal income tax purposes, including without
limitation restrictions on the use of the property
financed with the proceeds of the Notes so that the
Notes will not constitute “private activity bonds”
within the meaning of Section 141 of the Code. The
Board further covenants that it shall restrict the use
of the proceeds of the Notes in such manner and to such
extent, if any, as may be necessary, after taking into
account reasonable expectations at the time the Notes
are issued, so that they will not constitute arbitrage
bonds under Section 148 of the Code and all of the
regulations prescribed under the Code (the
“Regulations”).
The Chief Financial Officer, or any other officer
of this Board, is hereby authorized and directed (a) to
make or effect any election, selection, designation,
choice, consent, approval or waiver on behalf of the
Library with respect to the Notes as permitted or
required to be made or given under the federal income
tax laws, for the purpose of assuring, enhancing or
protecting favorable tax treatment or the status of the
Notes or interest thereon or assisting compliance with
requirements for that purpose, reducing the burden or
expense of such compliance, reducing any rebate amount
or any payment of penalties, or making any payments of
special amounts in lieu of making computations to
determine, or paying, any excess earnings as rebate, or
obviating those amounts or payments, as determined by
the Chief Financial Officer, which action shall be in
writing and signed by the Chief Financial Officer, or
any other officer of the Board, on behalf of the
Library; (b) to take any and all actions, make or obtain
calculations, and make or give reports, covenants and
certifications of and on behalf of the Library, as may

 928

be appropriate to assure the exclusion of interest from
gross and the intended tax status of the Notes; and (c)
to give an appropriate certificate on behalf of the
Library, for inclusion in the transcript of proceedings,
setting forth the facts, estimates and circumstances,
and reasonable expectations of the Board pertaining to
Section 148 and the Regulations, and the
representations, warranties and covenants of the Board
regarding compliance by the Board with Sections 141
through 150 of the Code and the Regulations.
The Chief Financial Officer of the Board shall keep
and maintain adequate records pertaining to investment
of all proceeds of the Notes sufficient to permit, to
the maximum extent possible and presently foreseeable,
the Board to comply with any federal law or regulation
now or hereafter having applicability to the Notes which
limits the amount of Note proceeds which may be invested
on an unrestricted yield or requires the Board to rebate
arbitrage profits to the United States Department of the
Treasury. The Chief Financial Officer of the Board is
hereby authorized and directed to file such reports
with, and rebate arbitrage profits to, the United States
Department of the Treasury, to the extent that any
federal law or regulation having applicability to the
Notes requires any such reports or rebates.
The officer having charge of the minutes of the
Board and any other officers of the Board, or any of
them individually, are hereby authorized and directed to
prepare and certify a true transcript of proceedings
pertaining to the Notes and to furnish a copy of such
transcript to the Original Purchaser. Such transcript
shall include certified copies of all proceedings and
records of the Board relating to the power and authority
of the Library to issue the Notes and certificates as to
matters within their knowledge or as shown by the books
and records under their custody and control, including
but not limited to a general certificate of the Chief
Financial Officer and a no-litigation certificate of the
President and the Chief Financial Officer, and such
certified copies and certificates shall be deemed
representations of the Library as to the facts stated
therein.
The Chief Financial Officer and the President are
hereby authorized and directed to take such action
(including, but not limited to, hiring such other

 929

professionals or consultants as may be needed to
facilitate the issuance of the Notes) and to execute and
deliver, on behalf of the Board, such additional
instruments, agreements, certificates, and other
documents as may be in their discretion necessary or
appropriate in order to carry out the intent of this
Resolution. Such documents shall be in the form not
substantially inconsistent with the terms of this
Resolution, as they in their discretion shall deem
necessary or appropriate.
The Chief Financial Officer is authorized to make
appropriate arrangements, if the Chief Financial Officer
deems it in the best interest of the Library, for the
issuance of a municipal bond insurance policy with
respect to all or any portion of the Notes, including
executing and delivering a commitment therefor and
certificates and other documents in connection
therewith. All additional provisions required to be
authorized by this Board for the issuance of a municipal
bond insurance policy shall be contained in the
Certificate of Fiscal Officer.
The distribution of an Official Statement of the
Library, in preliminary and final form, relating to the
original issuance of the Notes is hereby authorized, and
the Chief Financial Officer, and Board President are
hereby authorized and directed to negotiate, prepare and
execute, on behalf of the Library and in their official
capacity, the Official Statement and any supplements
thereto as so executed in connection with the original
issuance of the Notes, and they are authorized and
directed to advise the Original Purchaser in writing
regarding limitations on the use of the Official
Statement and any supplements thereto for purposes of
marketing or reoffering the Notes as they deem necessary
or appropriate to protect the interests of the Library.
The Chief Financial Officer and Board President are each
authorized to execute and deliver, on behalf of the
Library and in their official capacities, such
certificates in connection with the accuracy of the
Official Statement, in either preliminary or final form,
and any supplements thereto as may, in their judgment,
be necessary or appropriate.
The Chief Financial Officer is hereby authorized to
obtain or update a rating or ratings on the Notes and
the Library if the Chief Financial Officer determines

 930

that it is necessary or advisable in connection with the
original issuance of the Notes. If the Chief Financial
Officer so determines, then the President and the Chief
Financial Officer are hereby authorized and directed to
take all steps necessary to obtain such rating or
ratings.
The officers of the Board are hereby authorized and
directed to prepare and furnish to the Original
Purchaser certified copies of all proceedings and
records of the Board relating to the power and authority
of the Board to issue the Notes and certificates as to
matters within their knowledge or as shown by the books
and records under their custody and control, including
but not limited to a general certificate of the Chief
Financial Officer and a no-litigation certificate of the
Board President and the Chief Financial Officer, and
such certified copies and certificates shall be deemed
representations of the Board as to the facts stated
therein.
It is hereby determined that all acts, conditions
and things necessary to be done precedent to and in the
issuing of the Notes in order to make them legal, valid
and binding special obligations of the Library have
happened, been done and been performed in regular and
due form as required by law; and that no limitation of
indebtedness or taxation, either statutory or
constitutional, has been exceeded in issuing the Notes
It is hereby found and determined that all formal
actions of this Board concerning and relating to the
adoption of this resolution were adopted in an open
meeting of this Board, and that all deliberations of
this Board and of any of its committees that resulted in
such formal action, were in meetings open to the public,
in compliance with all legal requirements including
Section 121.22 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Ms. Maritza Rodriguez seconded the motion and,
after discussion, a roll call vote was taken and the
results were:
Voting Aye: Alice G. Butts, Alan Seifullah, Maritza
Rodriguez, John M. Hairston, Jr., Alesha Washington,
Anthony T. Parker
Voting Nay:

__________________

 931

RESOLUTION
APPROVING A
WRITTEN
POSTISSUANCE
COMPLIANCE
POLICY IN
CONNECTION
WITH THE
ISSUANCE OF
TAX-EXEMPT
AND TAXPREFERRED
OBLIGATIONS
BY THE
LIBRARY
Approved

Resolution Approving a Written Post-Issuance Compliance
Policy In Connection with the Issuance of Tax-Exempt and
Tax-Preferred Obligations by the Library
The Board of Library Trustees (the “Board”) of the
Cleveland Public Library (the “Library”), Cuyahoga
County, Ohio, met in regular session on June 18, 2019,
at 12:00 p.m., at the Louis Stokes Wing, Main Library,
525 Superior Avenue, 10th Floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44114,
with the following members present:
Mr. Alan Seifullah introduced the following
resolution and moved its passage:
A RESOLUTION APPROVING A WRITTEN POSTISSUANCE COMPLIANCE POLICY IN CONNECTION
WITH THE ISSUANCE OF TAX-EXEMPT AND TAXPREFERRED OBLIGATIONS BY THE LIBRARY
WHEREAS, the Library has previously issued, or intends
to issue in the future, bonds and other obligations for
the purpose of financing various capital improvements in
the Library (collectively, the “Obligations”); and
WHEREAS, such obligations were issued, or will be issued
as, tax-exempt and tax-preferred obligations under the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended; and
WHEREAS, in connection with the issuance of the
Obligations, it is advised that the Board have a formal
written policy outlining the policies and procedures
necessary to promote compliance with federal income tax
and securities laws, as well as the requirements set
forth in the documents for each issue of Obligations;
and
WHEREAS, the Board desires to formally approve a written
policy outlining such policies and procedures;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Library
Trustees of the Cleveland Public Library, Cuyahoga
County, Ohio, that:
Approval of Written Post-Issuance Compliance
Policy. The Board hereby approves a written post
issuance compliance policy (the “Policy”) in connection

 932

with the issuance of the Obligations of the Library. On
behalf of the Board, the Fiscal Officer is hereby
authorized to execute the Policy, which Policy shall be
in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A. The Fiscal
Officer is also hereby authorized to execute any other
documents necessary in connection with the Policy. The
Fiscal Officer’s execution of such documents shall be
conclusive evidence of the Board’s approval of such
documents.
Open Meeting. It is hereby found and determined
that all formal actions of the Board concerning and
relating to the passage of this Resolution were taken in
an open meeting of the Board, and that all deliberations
of the Board and of any of its committees that resulted
in such formal action were in meetings open to the
public in compliance with all legal requirements,
including Ohio Revised Code Section 121.22.
Mr. Thomas D. Corrigan seconded the motion and,
after discussion, a roll call vote was taken and the
results were:
Voting Aye: Alice G. Butts, Alan Seifullah, Thomas D.
Corrigan, Maritza Rodriguez, John M. Hairston, Jr.,
Alesha Washington, Anthony T. Parker
Voting Nay:

__________

Fiscal Officer’s Report
(See pages 1042-1051)
Report on Investments
(See page 1052)
Report on Conference and Travel Expenditures
(See pages 1053-1055)
Report on Expenditures Made from the Owner’s Contingency
Fund for Safe, Warm and Dry Construction Project
(See pages 1056-1061)

FISCAL OFFICER’S
REPORT
Submitted
REPORT ON
INVESTMENTS
Submitted
REPORT ON
CONFER. &
TRAVEL
EXPENDITURES
Submitted
REPORT ON
EXPENDITURES
MADE FROM THE
OWNER’S
CONTINGENCY
FUND FOR SAFE,
WARM AND DRY
CONSTRUCTION
PROJECT
Submitted

 933

REPORT ON
EXPENDITURES
MADE FROM THE
OWNER’S
CONTINGENCY
FUND FOR
SOUTH BRANCH
RENOVATION
PROJECT
Submitted

Report on Expenditures Made from the Owner’s Contingency
Fund for South Branch Renovation Project

REPORT ON
EXPENDITURES
MADE FROM THE
OWNER’S
CONTINGENCY
FUND FOR
LAKESHORE
FACILITY ROOF
REPLACEMENT
PROJECT
Submitted

Report on Agreements Entered into for Entertainment and
Vendors for 2019 CPL150 Activities

REPORT ON
AGREEMENTS
ENTERED INTO
FOR
ENTERTAINMENT
AND VENDORS
FOR 2019 CPL150
ACTIVITIES
Submitted
REGULAR
EMPLOYMENT
REPORT
Approved
REPORT ON PAID
SICK TIME
Submitted
EMPLOYEE
DEMOGRAPHICS
(EEO-4) REPORT
Submitted
INSURANCE
SUMMARY
REPORT
Submitted

(See page 1062)
Report on Expenditures Made from the Owner’s Contingency
Fund for Lake Shore Facility Roof Replacement Project
(See page 1063)

(See page 1064)
HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE REPORT
Mr. Hairston presented the following report.
Regular Employee Report
(See pages 1065-1067)
Mr. Hairston moved approval of the Regular Employee
Report. Mr. Corrigan seconded the motion, which passed
unanimously by roll call vote.
Report on Paid Sick Time Used by the Month
(See page 1068)
Employee Demographics(EEO-4)Report
(See page 1069)
Insurance Summary Report
(See page 1070)
COMMUNITY SERVICES
Mr. Corrigan submitted the following report.

 934

Resolution to Revise Policy on Internet and Computer Use
(See pages 1071-1072)
Mr. Corrigan moved approval of the following resolution.
Ms. Rodriguez seconded the motion, which passed
unanimously by roll call vote.
WHEREAS, Library policies are revised periodically to
conform with changes in the law, recommendations from
the Library’s Executive Leadership Team, and changes in
how services are delivered by the Library; and
WHEREAS, MyCloud was a service provided by the Library
beginning in 2012 that offered patrons using public
computers a persistent virtual desktop that was theirs
to customize just as they would a personal computer; and
WHEREAS, Advances in technology have allowed other
services to match or surpass much of what MyCloud
offered, causing the Library to end the service; and
WHEREAS, The Policy on Internet and Computer Use
contains a section on the MyCloud service, including a
user agreement; now therefore be it
RESOLVED, That the Board of Library Trustees hereby
adopts a revised Policy on Internet and Computer Use,
effective July 1, 2019, which strikes all language that
refers to MyCloud.
Trustee Corrigan reminded the assembly that Cleveland
Public Library was a pioneer in offering cloud services
to its patrons. Before these services were readily
available through commercial providers, CPL created
MyCloud for patrons whose only access to computing was
through the public library. CPL no longer offers the
service because access to cloud services is now widely
accessible from numerous large technology companies.
Timothy Diamond, Chief Knowledge Officer, explained that
removing references to MyCloud from the policy was
overdue. The Knowledge Office is working to bring all
policies and procedures up to date.

RESOLUTION TO
REVISE POLICY
ON INTERNET
AND COMPUTER
USE
Approved

 935

RESOLUTION
TO PROVIDE
AMNESTY FOR
OVERDUE
FINES
Approved

Resolution to Provide Amnesty for Overdue Fines
Mr. Corrigan moved approval of the following resolution.
Ms. Washington seconded the motion, which passed
unanimously by roll call vote.
WHEREAS, If Cleveland Public Library is to actualize
its mission as the center of learning for a diverse and
inclusive community, the Library must commit to
advancing social equity by designing a more just library
system; and
WHEREAS, The hallmark of a just library system is one
that identifies barriers to access and strives to reduce
them; and
WHEREAS, This library system has long recognized that
overdue fines hurt the community’s most vulnerable
populations and create barriers to learning which led
the Board of Library Trustees to approve a resolution at
their regular meeting on February 21, 2019, to “go fine
free,” effective July 27, 2019; and
WHEREAS, In preparation for becoming a fine-free
library system, the Executive Leadership Team recommends
that the Library clear all overdue fines owed to CPL
from the records of our patrons, leaving on their
accounts only whatever fees they may owe to CPL (for
lost materials, damaged materials, referrals to the
Library’s asset recovery provider, and other fees) and
whatever amounts they may owe to other CLEVNET
libraries; and
WHEREAS, The Executive Leadership Team would like to
revisit the subject of these outstanding fees with the
Board at a later date, especially as they impact the
ability of young people to access library materials and
services; now therefore be it
RESOLVED, That prior to the CPL150 Street Festival on
July 27, 2019, Cleveland Public Library will clear
overdue fines from the records of library patrons,
subject to the terms and conditions of the
administrative procedures developed for the project.
Trustee Washington asked if this proposed amnesty
excluded fees for materials that had not been returned.

 936

Mr. Diamond replied that lost materials were excluded;
the amnesty would only apply to overdue fines.
Monthly Activity Report
(See pages 1073-1078)

MONTHLY
ACTIVITY
REPORT
Submitted

Mr. Corrigan stated that largely due to the Library’s
change in policies due to automatic renewal to avoid
late fees, year to date gain in circulation is 20%. The
largest portion of that increase is at Main Library and
eMedia. This shows that items which people come
downtown for and download are the most likely items to
be automatically renewed. Computer usage remains flat at
Main Library but continues to climb at branches.
Building Status Update
Jeremiah Swetel, Chief Operating Officer, stated that in
addition to the presentation on DEI Recommendations for
Facilities Master Plan, most of the projects are now
complete. Final paperwork is in process to get those
projects closed out.

BUIDLING
STATUS
UPDATE
Presented

Mr. Swetel stated that he has scheduled visits to the
branches to discuss with the staff how the Facilities
Master Plan will impact them as well as timing. He has
also been working with Ms. Johnson Thomas to meet with
City Council representatives in those areas as well.
Mr. Swetel stated that he is scheduled to meet with
Councilman Mike Polensek and Bill Finn, President & CEO,
Hospice of the Western Reserve, Joel Ratner, President &
CEO, Cleveland Neighborhood Progress, today to discuss
the Lake Shore property, timing and how to include it
into a larger development project. This meeting will
also provide the opportunity to update Councilman
Polensek with an update on our process.
Safe, Warm and Dry Update
In response to Mr. Corrigan, Mr. Swetel confirmed that
the Safe, Warm & Dry project has been completed.

SAFE, WARM
& DRY
UPDATE
Presented

 937

ADVOCACY
TASKFORCE
UPDATE
Presented

Advocacy Taskforce Update
Ms. Johnson Thomas, Chief of External Relations and
Development, thanked the Board for those who were able
to email or place phone calls to members of the Senate
Finance Committee with the talking points provided by
the External Relations and Development Office in support
of an increase in the PLF to 1.7%. The substitute bill
did come out and the Senate is proposing to increase the
PLF to 1.7% of the GRF but we have some distance to go
until June 30, 2019 when it becomes law. Michelle
Francis, Executive Director, Ohio Library Council, will
testify before the Senate. Ms. Francis will be
communicating with libraries across the state on next
steps as there is an omnibus component and conference
committee until it becomes law. We are, however,
pleased that the Senate is recommending the 1.7%
increase.
Mr. Corrigan stated that the greatest handicap of term
limits has been that every new generation of Republican
legislature has been to cut taxes more. As he has
mentioned before, Mr. Corrigan stated that the Library
for the Blind and Physically Disabled has endured the
same budget for three bienniums without an increase.
Since we are the only library providing these services
means that all of the slippage that has occurred in cost
is on us.
Ms. Johnson Thomas stated that if they kept it at 1.68%
including those additional cuts, it would be even lower.
In response to Ms. Butts’ inquiry, Ms. Johnson Thomas
stated that Governor DeWine is very supportive.

FOUNDATION
UPDATE
Presented

Foundation Update
Mr. Corrigan stated that he attend the recent Foundation
Board Meeting and learned that the Foundation has
achieved most of its fundraising goals in support of the
CPL150 Anniversary year.
In response to Ms. Washington’s inquiry, Mr. Corrigan
explained that the term “gala” tends to seem less
inclusive.

 938

Finally, Mr. Corrigan stated that he will continue to
encourage endowment support for the Library. The
collection is too important to require Cleveland
taxpayers alone to support it. Our collection needs the
sort of predictable annual support to maintain it as a
significant endowment can do.
Director Thomas stated that although the Resolution to
Engage Jaros Strategy LLC for Capital Fundraising
Consulting Services was tabled for now; Susan Jaros is
to discuss how to create an endowment or capital
campaign to raise money for the Library rather than the
Foundation.
Mr. Corrigan stated that the Foundation has had four
directors in the last seven years. They have tapped into
their capital to pay the operating expenses for what
they do. We had a national expert from Saint Paul,
Minnesota, in for them and the process has been a slog.
Mr. Corrigan stated that he looked forward to Susan
Jaros to see what we can do in that regard. We still
have several months remaining in our 150th Anniversary to
figure out how to at least get a launching platform for
an endowment for this Library.
Finally, Ms. Johnson Thomas stated that a save-the-date
announcement for the Anniversary Affair, created by our
Marketing Department, will be in the August issue of the
Community Leader Cleveland Magazine.
Director Thomas stated that this will be the first year
that the Foundation will be in the black over the last
five years.
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Update
In Ms. Winlock’s absence, Mr. Corrigan stated that he
believed that this has been covered in the DEI
Recommendations for Facilities Master Plan presentation.
NEW BUSINESS
 
Ms. Rodriguez presented the following item of New
Business.

DIVERSITY,
EQUITY &
INCLUSION
UPDATE
Presented

 939

RESOLUTION
ADOPTING
POLICY ON
PUBLIC
PARTICIPATION
Approved

Resolution Adopting Policy on Public Participation
(See page 1079)
Ms. Rodriguez moved approval of the following
resolution. Mr. Hairston seconded the motion, which
passed unanimously by roll call vote.
WHEREAS, The Board of Library Trustees welcomes public
input in its deliberations and recognizes both the
importance of public comment on issues before this Board
and the ability of members of the community to express
their views on matters of interest to the Library; and
WHEREAS, The Board of Library Trustees is committed to
conducting its meetings in a civil, orderly, efficient,
and productive manner designed to allow for the
completion of the regular agenda within a reasonable
period of time, while also allowing a fair and adequate
opportunity for public input to be considered; and
WHEREAS, The Library wishes to adopt a formal policy on
public participation at regular meetings of the Board of
Library Trustees and its various committees in order to
streamline meetings while preserving the ability of the
public to be heard and to express their viewpoints; now
therefore be it
RESOLVED, That the Board of Library Trustees adopts the
attached policy, to be effective June 19, 2019.
After some discussion, it was agreed that public
comments would held either at the beginning or end of
the meeting.
Director Thomas stated that Public Comment would be
reflected on the agenda at the beginning and end.

DIRECTOR’S
REPORT
Presented

DIRECTOR’S REPORT
Director Thomas stated that in consideration of time,
the Director’s report can be read at leisure.

 940

Strategic Plan
Our Mission:
We are “The People’s University,” the center of learning
for a diverse and inclusive community.
Our Strategic Priorities:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Form communities of learning
Fight community deficits
Ready for the future: CPL 150
Cultivate a global perspective
Innovate for efficient and sustainable operations

PUBLIC SERVICES
Programs and Services
Center for Local and Global History Programming
Center for Local & Global History Manager Olivia Hoge
worked with Government Documents Supervisor Sarah
Dobransky and Web Administrator Will Skora to provide a
Civic Data Community Workshop at the Rice Branch on May
9th.
Ms. Hoge, Photograph Collection Librarian Brian Meggitt,
and Library Assistant Subject Department Lisa Sanchez
hosted an after-hours visit to the Photograph Collection
by nine (9) participants in the Cleveland 20/20 project
between the Cleveland Print Room and the Library on May
20th. Mr. Meggitt arranged a large display of photographs
by prominent Cleveland photographers and a selection of
Cleveland subject photographs. The gathering was an
opportunity to meet, discuss specific issues with the
project, and show off the Collection to individuals
whose work will be added to our Collection.
Mr. Meggitt hosted a group from the Lakewood Senior
Center on May 8th, led on a Library tour by Library
Assistant Subject Department Joseph Parnell. Mr. Meggitt
had prepared a small display of historic downtown
Cleveland photographs for the group to view. There were
eight (8) seniors in the tour group.

 941

Ms. Hoge and Mr. Metter hosted a tour for 35 Project 60
students from Cuyahoga Community College. The tour
covered the Map Collection, Photograph Collection,
Cleveland Public Library Digital Library, Special
Collection, and ended in the Puppet Exhibit.
Ms. Sanchez selected photographs for the department’s
weekly TBT feature. Some of the images included the
Superior building on Superior Ave. and West 9th St., the
O-Ke Doke Popcorn factory, and the Kinsman School
garden.
Fine Arts and Special Collections
Fine Arts Library Assistant Mark Fox Morgan collaborated
with an Art Lab session with Youth Services about the
artwork of Andy Warhol and Pop Art on May 15th. He
supplied books from Fine Arts and created coloring
pages. No participants attended. After reviewing past
low attendance of the Art Lab sessions, Fine Arts &
Special Collections Manager Pam Eyerdam decided that Mr.
Fox Morgan will no longer participate in the programming
efforts at this time unless interest is resumed.
Special Collections Librarian Ray Rozman assisted Youth
Services in hosting a large group of children from
Buhrer Dual Language Academy on May 8th. He gave a tour
to 25 2nd graders to see the Literature and Special
Collections department and the Puppet exhibit. He and
Special Collections Librarian Stacie Brisker performed
“I’m a Little Teapot” for the children.
A special tour and presentation was given to 22 students
(11th graders) from Maple Hts. High School on May 14th.
They were interested in resources that the Library had
for college-bound students. Ms. Brisker did a
presentation about Primary Resources, how to do
research, library databases and applied for library
cards.
A special tour was set up for 17 students from the Dover
Intermediate School on May 17th. They wanted to learn
about and see the actual Audubon prints. Students were
shown a volume of the 1860 edition of Birds of America
and the 1845 Viviparous Quadrupeds of North America. Two
of the students came back that weekend with their
parents to see the Audubon prints.

 942

Music at Main
Musician Austin Cane performed a selection of blues
music for an audience of 38 people on May 11th.
Poetry Out Loud
Literature Department Librarian Evone Jeffries presented
a Cleveland Public Poetry Open Mic Poetry Reading
program sponsored by The Ohio Center for the Book on May
20th.
International Languages Programming
International Languages planned and hosted six programs,
both in-house and off-site. Senior Subject Librarian
Caroline Han planned four of these events which
instructed both children and adults in aspects of
Chinese language and culture. Subject Librarian Victoria
Kabo planned two children-focused Russian literary
events in the department. A total of 87 patrons
participated in CPL sponsored events during the month.
Lending
Lending assisted Youth Services in registering 70students from Campus International High School and 30
students from Cleveland Central Catholic with ConnectEd
library cards on May 6th and May 13th. Lending Assistant
Supervisor Tre Isaac joined Youth Services staff for an
outreach event at the Children’s Museum on May 9th. Mr.
Isaac provided information and library card applications
to dozens of patrons at the museum.
Literature
The Ohio Center for the Book hosted Free Comic Book Day
among seven locations in the Cleveland Public Library
system on May 4th. Over 170 people took part in the
festivities visiting Fulton, Harvard-Lee, Langston
Hughes, Rice, Rockport, West Park, and Main Library’s
Literature Department. Some branch staff even wore
superhero costumes to mark the occasion! Literature
Department Library Assistants Nick Durda and Michael
Haverman were the primary coordinators for the event
from ordering and delivering cakes to each branch to
procuring comic books to distribute to patrons from

 943

Carol and John’s Comic Shop. The Ohio Center for the
Book hosted the annual Letters About Literature event on
May 11th. Literature Department Librarian Timothy
Phillips was the primary coordinator for the program,
handling everything from catering arrangements to
providing master-of-ceremony duties. Several Literature
department staff helped with hosting winners, sponsors,
and guests. Several winners read their letters at the
event, and attendees found them moving and
inspirational. In addition to Mr. Phillips, speakers
included Director of Main Library & Research John
Skrtic, Manager Don Boozer, and Youth Services Librarian
Julie Gabb who also served as a judge. A number of
attendees personally expressed their gratitude for the
event and the ceremony.
Knitting at PAL
Popular Library Manager Sarah Flinn and Public
Administration Library Assistant Monica Musser hosted a
knitting class for City Hall employees. Patrons are
working on baby blankets.
Popular Library Clerk Daunte Bolden worked at the
eSports event in the Learning Commons on May 25th.
CDPL
Cleveland Digital Public Library regularly hosts
classes, including CPL Fit Yoga, Core Strengthening, and
CPL Chess Club. Our weekly Yoga and Core Strengthening
offerings are regularly attended by 12 or more people,
with a gate count of over 80 attendees over the month,
about half of whom are from downtown offices. We have
held four meetings of the CPL Chess Club with a total of
7 attendees over the month.
Main Library Tours and School Visits
Special Collections conducted tours for 8 special needs
guests from Cleveland Vocational Services, 2 groups of
25 (50 total students) from Buhrer Dual Language Academy
2nd graders, and 8 GED students on May 8th. Tours were
provided for 50 students from Ruffing Montessori 2nd
graders and 9 students from Sunbeam Elementary on May
9th. The week of May 13th welcomed 11 guests from
Toronto, Australia and Arizona; as well as 21 students

 944

from Copley School (8th graders), 68 Canterbury
Elementary students, 4 guests from Osaka, Japan, and 12
3rd graders from West Side Academy. A tour of Special
Collections was given to researchers from Tucson, AZ
doing research on servicemen who were killed on the USS
Arizona during WWII. They noticed that the Cleveland
Roll of Honor was out on display for Memorial Day. Tours
were also give May 30th for 38 students from Tri-C campus
looking at Charles Chesnutt materials, miniature books &
the John G. White exhibits and 10 guests from Catholic
Charities Migration and Refugee services.
Main Library Book Clubs
Award Winning Book Club
Literature Department Library Assistant Michael Haverman
hosted the monthly Award-Winning Book Club on May 7th.
Mr. Haverman and four attendees discussed the novel
Bluebird, Bluebird by Attica Locke.
The Ohio Center for the Book hosted Literature
Department Librarian Timothy Phillips’ Literary Friday
Frolic program on May 24th. Mr. Phillips and seven
attendees discussed John Steinbeck’s The Red Pony and
the 1973 Universal made-for-TV movie with the teleplay
written by Emmy-Award-winning Ohio native Ron Bishop.
Books on Tap
Center for Local & Global History Manager Olivia Hoge
led the Broads, Books, and Beers book discussion on
Daughters of the Samurai: A Journey from East to West
and Back by Janice Nimura on May 8th at Noble Beast.
Brown Bag Book & Movie Club
Subject Department Librarian Terry Metter held a Brown
Bag Book and a Movie Club program on May 20th. Mr. Metter
and four patrons discussed Seven Years in Tibet by
Heinrich Harrer and the film based on the book was
screened after the discussion.

 945

Get Graphic!
The Ohio Center for the Book’s Get Graphic! initiative
hosted two book discussions in May in their “Comics and
the Clinic” series: May 2nd on Nothing Lasts Forever by
Sina Grace, and May 16th on Mis(h)adra by Iasmin Omar
Ata. The discussions were hosted by Valentino Zullo, PhD
student at Kent State University and former Ohio Center
for the Book Scholar-in-Residence, and Literature
Department Library Assistant Nick Durda.
The OLBPD adult book club met on May 10th to discuss
Merle’s Door by Ted Kerasote.
Main Library Blogs
A blog for the Cleveland Roll of Honor was written by
Special Collections staff (announcing that the volumes
would be on display for Memorial Day (week)
https://cpl.org/special-collections-to-display-wwiigreater-cleveland-roll-of-honor/.
Seven 7 people were added to the email/ mailing list.
Librarian Evone Jeffries wrote one blog post and
researched and added one new biography to the Ohio
Authors page. Librarian Timothy Phillips added to the
website a study guide and discussion questions on the
Literary Friday Frolic program on John Steinbeck’s The
Red Pony. Manager Don Boozer wrote three posts: one on
the #1Lib1Ref initiative encouraging people to edit
Wikipedia articles on Ohio Authors during late May/early
June, one promoting the Literary Friday Frolic program,
and one a list of recommended Ohio-authors of epic scifi/fantasy to assuage people’s desire for reading
choices after the end of the Game of Thrones TV series.
On the statewide initiative’s dedicated Twitter feed,
Mr. Boozer posted 54 tweets or retweets in April/May.
The account, @cplocfb, had 23 mentions and got 36 new
followers.
Main Library Outreach
Ms. Sanchez and Library Assistant Substitute Aimee
LePelley represented the Cleveland Public Library Rooms
to Let in Slavic Village on May 19th. They informed
people about library services and the party in the
streets to celebrate the 150th anniversary of CPL.

 946

International Languages staff was busy filling Long Loan
requests for seven CPL/CLEVNET agencies. To promote new
materials, encourage greater use of library resources
and increase awareness of CPL sponsored events, staff
forwarded 12 distinct emails/mailings to 2,593 patrons
affiliated with the department’s mailing lists and
listserv databases. These messages contained booklists
of newly arrived materials, notices of upcoming library
closings and related CPL news. Senior Subject Librarian
Caroline Han, in conjunction with the Youth Services
department, conducted a departmental tour for CopleyFairlawn Middle School May 19th. 24 visitors were
interested in learning about Chinese language-learning
materials for high school students. Subject Librarian
Victoria Kabo attended the Book Expo America event in
NYC May 28th-30th.
Popular Library Assistant April Lancaster prepared items
for display at the satellite collection at Kelvin Smith
Library.
Two telescopes of books from Fine Arts were pulled and
routed out for the Book Box at Edgewater.
A request to print more bookmarks of Things to See @
Cleveland Public Library was submitted. These will be
circulated to the Soldiers’ & Sailors’ Monument who
helps to promote library activities.
Ohio State PhD candidate of Russian History worked with
Special Collections staff to write a profile about
former library cataloger Francis Sommer for the
Encyclopedia of Cleveland History
https://case.edu/ech/articles/sommer-francis-erich.
On May 1st, Fine Arts & Special Collections Manager Pam
Eyerdam gave an introduction to the history of Cleveland
Public Library and its architecture, along with a quick
tour through the Puppet exhibit for Philanthropy Ohio
guests (15 attendees). Ms. Eyerdam delivered various
library promotional items to support the young men’s
program at the Galleria called All About Your Health on
May 2nd. Board member Alan Seiffullah requested materials
on chess programs and any other library resources. Ms.
Eyerdam attended the opening of the Cleveland Museum of
Art Teen Curatorship exhibit at the Langston Hughes
branch on May 30th.

 947

A new Special Collections librarian from the
Indianapolis Public Library called for a consultation
about Reading Room procedures. Ms. Eyerdam provided him
with a copy of the Special Collections procedures and
discussed some security issues.
Ms. Eyerdam met with the new Literature Manager Don
Boozer and the local chapter of the Jane Austen Society
on May 8th to plan some library events for the conference
in October 2020.
Mr. Boozer hosted a meeting on May 16th of the CPL
Wikipedian Support Group to discuss on-going projects to
use Wikipedia to promote access to library resources and
to enhance content of interest to the library and the
city of Cleveland. Topics discussed included uploading
images to Wikimedia Commons and determining the rights
issues involved, creating a legal document to provide to
Wikimedia to allow library staff to upload images whose
copyright is owned by the library, and creating a
dedicated GLAM (Galleries-Libraries-Archives-Museums)
page on Wikipedia to consolidate and promote Wikipedia
activities of Cleveland Public Library and The Ohio
Center for the Book. May’s monthly meeting was very
productive and served to move projects along.
The Literature Department officially took over
responsibility for Homebound Services on May 28th. Adult
Outreach & Programming Coordinator Shayna Muckerheide
coordinated with Literature Mr. Boozer on the move. As
part of the training, Mr. Boozer, Literature Department
Librarian Timothy Phillips, and Library Assistant
Michael Haverman visited the Woodland Branch where
Homebound Services was previously headquartered.
Literacy Coordinator Rhonda Pai provided a demonstration
of the processes used including working with the UPS
Worldship software, US Postal Service procedures, and
packaging. Ms. Muckerheide had a number of conversations
with Mr. Boozer and also took him to the East 55th Street
Post Office to explain the on-going Electronic Payment
System issues. Literature staff continues to train on
policies and procedures connected with Homebound
Services and has begun to interact with patrons over the
phone. IT/CLEVNET staff members Robert Bobick and Robert
Patrick have done exemplary work in transferring
equipment and re-configuring phones to accommodate the
new service in Literature. Literature department staff

 948

members have been active in promoting the activities of
the Ohio Center for the Book via the dedicated website
and social media channels of the statewide initiative.
ClevDPL has begun collaboration with Dr. Regennia
Williams on an interview project related to the antiapartheid activism in Cleveland during the 1980s.
ClevDPL continues to explore collaboration with the
Edward E. Parker Museum in developing an East Cleveland
artist related oral history project partnership. ClevDPL
continues to explore a partnership with East Cleveland
Public Library regarding arrangement, description, and
digitization of the Ichabod Flewellyn collection.
ClevDPL continues to work with the Cleveland Orchestra
to scan scrapbooks. ClevDPL has been working with a
vendor and has completed the scanning of Cleveland
Scene. Currently QA, markup, metadata review and other
aspects of the project remain to be completed, with a
new target set for the end of summer/early fall. Delayed
until May, it will embark on a COM (computer output
microfilm) project with the Daily Legal News. We are
waiting for Scene to be complete to go into production
for digitizing the Cleveland Leader. Working with the
Internet Archive, CDPL is coming to the end of the grant
for curating web-content (part of a $35,000 IMLS grant
working with the Internet Archive’s ArchiveIT project to
document local web-content and local digital resources).
ClevDPL has created a collection in the Digital Gallery
(ContentDM) for Web Archives and has populated the
collection. We have done numerous public presentations
on our Web Archiving, and have presentations planned for
the summer. ClevDPL staff have continued to enhance
demonstration digitization projects with Euclid Library,
the Ukrainian Museum and Archives, Shaker Heights Public
Library, Cleveland Orchestra and the South Brooklyn
Historical Society. CDPL has arranged with the
administrator of the Literature Collection regarding
storing the surveyed, refoldered, reboxed, and relabeled
W. Ward Marsh collection and will be moving the
collection to Literature over the summer. CDPL had good
attendance at the paper making workshop in May.
TechCentral completed a 20-week long course with the
Catholic Charities Refugee Program. The program
culminated with a tour of Main Library on May 30th.

 949

Interim TechCentral Manager Suzi Perez was interviewed
by Kate Hogan of Pressure Life magazine regarding the
MakerSpace on May 17th.
Library Assistants Michael Credico and Alison Guerin
brought the Mobile MakerSpace to Tech for Seniors at
CMHA Beachcrest Apartments in the Collinwood
neighborhood on May 9th.
TechCentral staff participated at the Cleveland Asian
Festival on May 28th, showcasing the Mobile MakerSpace,
including the laser engraver, 3D printer and button
maker.
Main Library Displays
Fine Arts Librarian Andy Kaplan set up a book display
featuring books for Asian and Pacific Islanders Heritage
Month.
Staff in ClevDPL collaborated with staff from Graphics,
Archives, and Special Collections to design and install
the “CPL: 150 Years through the Eyes of the Staff” and
the “John G. White” exhibits. Support includes
maintaining the media displays in Brett Hall,
programming, and adding content to the Magic Box in the
John G. White Gallery. At the request of OPS staff,
ClevDPL also reinstalled temperature and humidity
monitors in the Brett Hall exhibit space. ClevDPL worked
with Special Collections on registering, shipping and
storing the items and supported the cooperative project
with the art museum involving youngsters as curators of
art work at our MLK Branch.
Collection Development
As part of the joint project with the Encyclopedia of
Cleveland History (ECH), Mr. Meggitt reviewed physical
collections, selected and digitized about 40 pertinent
photographs of African-American Clevelanders, and
uploaded those files into CONTENTdm (where he created
metadata, and added them into the Library’s Digital
Gallery). Links to the new items on the Digital Gallery
were then provided to ECH for relevant articles.
Mr. Meggitt continued the item-level inventory of the
Cleveland City Hall Collection. During the month he

 950

added unique identifying numbers, re-housed items, and
created initial metadata for more than 3,000
photographs, bringing the total to 15,253 (out of
roughly 35,000 total items in the Board of Zoning
Appeals section of the Collection).
Library Assistant Subject Department Adam Jaenke scanned
81 items from the City of Cleveland Park Plans. Ms.
Sanchez completed the General Subject Post Card
Collection, which included national and international
subjects. In total, Ms. Sanchez assigned item ID’s and
item descriptions to 695 items in the collection.
Ms. Sanchez created finding aids for 1975 images in the
Subject Cleveland Collection as well as 1890 images in
the Cleveland Picture Collection and Subject Cleveland
Collection in aid of a patron request.
ClevDPL has completed its work on studying potential
stack options for storing over-sized maps from the Maps
Collection. We have received appropriate conservation
housings, and have moved forward with wrapping maps in
storage tubes. We have obtained appropriate storage
racks for the rolled maps, but we still have the rolled
maps stored in our 5th floor storage area in Main
Building, we have yet to order the foam for the arms.
This foam should be ordered and installed by mid-summer,
2019.
Fine Arts librarian Andy Kaplan weeded 116 books in the
stack area of the 5th floor. He then began a shift
project working with Shelf Division staff. Mr. Kaplan
noted that two orchestral sets borrowed by The Heights
Chamber Ensemble were returned (used for their May
concert series).
Special Collections librarian Stacie Brisker assisted a
local author in finding items related to Christmas in
Cleveland for his new book. Ms. Brisker has been
involved with the Storytelling project and has
interviewed local poet Maxwell Shell. She also assisted
Library Archivist Ann Marie Weiland and a researcher
creating a documentary featuring Langston Hughes. A
researcher from Melbourne, Australia came in to see
books by Frank Lloyd Wright from the Schweinfurth
collection. Chess Master & researcher from California
visited the collection the week of May 13th to research

 951

Bobby Fischer. He also took the time to visit with a
young chess student player from Joseph M. Gallagher
Middle School that was featured in SCENE Magazine.
Special Collections staff assisted chess master & author
from Indiana and pulled a dozen items and gave him a
tour of the collection. Visiting chess researcher from
the Czech Republic spent 2 weeks in Special Collections.
He used the old card catalog to locate materials that
fell out of Sirsi, over 100 items were pulled. A
professor from Case Western Reserve requested books on
the general history of board games.
CPL Cataloger Michael Gabe requested information in
regards to the number of volumes in Slavic languages for
a presentation at the Midwest Slavic and Eurasian
Library Consortium meeting. Based on the subjects of
chess, folklore, social life and customs there are
approximately 1600 titles in the Slavic languages
(Russian, Ukrainian, Polish, Czech, Slovak, etc.) in the
John G. White collection.
Two 20th century Ethiopian manuscripts were recataloged
that fell out of Sirsi. Special Collections staff
supplied bibliographic information about the manuscripts
which were about Ethiopian law and the Queen of Sheba
(OCLC subjects headings were researched).
Special Collections librarian Ray Rozman shipped 17
chess journal titles to Lake Shore for the bindery.
A Cleveland State University Literature Department
professor is researching and using the 19th century
issues of PUCK Magazine for a research project. CPL has
the only full set available at a public library in the
region.
Gifts:
Chess researcher from California donated 3 rare Latvian
expatriate chess periodicals.
Research that’s Possible Only at Main Library
 Staff assisted a local author with finding and
obtaining images for local television personalities
of the 1950s to 1970s for a new book. Some of the 46
subjects included were “Captain Penny” Ron Penfound
(WEWS), Gene Carroll (WEWS), Candy Lee (WEWS), Glenn
Rowell (WNBK), and Linn Sheldon (WEWS; KYW; WKYC).

 952



















Staff assisted the Cleveland Law Library with
locating photographs of local attorneys who were
integral to the Law Library’s 150-year history.
Photographs of thirteen (13) lawyers were found from
a list of 61 topics searched.
Staff assisted a patron with a search for photographs
of the Headliner bar (once owned by the patron’s
family) on Superior Avenue and East 17th Street. While
no images of the bar were found, staff recalled an
image of the bar’s owner in a street scene of
Superior Avenue and East 17th on St. Patrick’s Day,
1953. The bar owner in the photograph was the
patron’s uncle.
Staff assisted a patron who was seeking articles
about his father, a local disability rights activist.
Staff used microfilm editions of the Plain Dealer,
Call & Post, and Press to provide the patron with
more information about his father’s work.
Staff assisted a patron from California with finding
articles about his father’s career as a prominent
African American attorney in Cleveland
Staff assisted a patron who is doing research on
Margaret Bourke-White. Staff was able to supply the
patron with the addresses to her studios with
Cleveland City Directories, news articles from the
Plain Dealer, Cleveland News, and Press, and
photographic prints from the Margaret Bourke-White
Collection in the Photograph Collection.
Staff found images for a patron from numerous subject
files displaying architectural brutalism in
Cleveland. Some of the buildings included the Reserve
Square Apartments, Cleveland Justice Center,
Cleveland State University Rhodes Tower, and Crawford
Hall at Case Western Reserve University.
Staff assisted a patron find images of the Arcade
from the late 20th century to the mid-20th century.
They plan to use the images for a documentary about
the Arcade.
Staff assisted a patron research a record store from
the 1960s, Unlimited Record Mart, at one time owned
and operated by the Womack family in Cleveland.
Staff helped a patron find articles about the “Beatle
Twins” in the Cleveland Press September and October

 953















1964. The Beatle twins marked a cultural phenomenon
in Cleveland. After two 16 year old girls allegedly
followed the Beatles back to England after their
Public Hall concert, there was a city wide backlash.
Other concerts were scrutinized and cancelled while
the concept of teens and rock and roll was hotly
debated in the Cleveland newspapers.
Staff assisted a lawyer and researcher to find
Cleveland News articles about Doris O’Donnell’s
encounter with Ted Williams in 1957.
The following were requested by patrons related to
art: art education books, art by Frank Frazetta, work
of Peruvian painter Boris Vallejo, fantasy art of the
70s and 80s, books on LGBTQ art; how to paint using
oils, Greek vase art, how to sell fashion clothes,
digital graphic design, value of glass art, women
artists of the 17th century, books on decorating,
19th century architecture, history of book
publishing.
The following were requested by patrons related to
music: teach yourself mandolin, music of Brazil,
black music and the jazz revolution, how to write
songs.
The following were requested by patrons related to
music scores: songs by Al Green, score for the
Russian Sailors’ dance, songs by Hank Williams, sheet
music by Mozart, spirituals, songs by Lionel Ritchie,
full score for Porgy & Bess.
Patron asked about any documentation about the
Aviation mural by George Danchuk at the Cleveland
Hopkins airport done in the 1930s. Articles were
found in the Plain Dealer.
Researcher from Biblioteca Nazionale Marciana in
Venice requested scans from the 16th century chess
publication Libro da imparare giocare a scachi: et de
belitissimi partiti by Damiano. They were trying to
compare the pagination from the digital files
compared to the penciled in pagination they saw on
the manuscript leaf. Staff informed the patron to go
by the penciled pagination.
Researcher from Spain requested scans from a 1515
chapbook by Frei Gomes de Santo Estevao entitled
Infante D. Pedro de Portugal. It was discovered that

 954



















this edition fell out of Sirsi but located on the
catalog card in Special Collections and found on the
shelf. The researcher found that the Cleveland Public
Library John G. White collection had the chapbook
that was cited in a Spanish book entitled Impresos
cientificos espanoles.
The medical library in Dayton requested scans on the
Hindu influences in the Philippines.
Researcher requested to see older titles of Fairy
Tales.
Author requested to view the 1886 book of
Illustrations of the Nests and Eggs of Birds of Ohio
by the Jones family.
Visiting scholar from Ireland who is teaching at the
University of Melbourne requested scans from text
authored by the Sikh scholar Max Arthur Macauliffe.
Special Collections has a 6 volume set and some
pamphlets.
Researcher requested to see the Tom L. Johnson
Papers, 1908-1911 (former mayor of Cleveland).
Patron requested to see early editions of The Book of
Mormon from the 19th century.
A visiting librarian from China took the time to read
the hanging scroll on view in Special Collections
(document about officials).
Chess writer in Europe requested scans from 1934
chess periodical Tidskrift for Schack for his online
blog.
Local researcher requested 16 volumes of books
related to witchcraft.
Local researcher requested information about Naids, a
Greek mythological figure and how it was depicted in
art.
Local researcher requested information on the Coptic
religion.
A request from Syracuse University art history
professor asked for a scan from the 1941 Ladies Home
Journal advertisement for Dole Pineapple. Staff
requested the 1941 journal from Lake Shore storage
and the copy was in terrific shape and scans were
made.

 955



Local chess researcher from Toledo requested scans
from the Letters to John G. White and from the
Hazeltine chess scrapbooks.

Staff Development
Photograph Collection Page Louise Lybrook accepted a
full time Librarian position at Hudson Library &
Historical Society. Ms. Lybrook’s last day in the
Photograph Collection was May 23rd.
Shelf Division Assistant Supervisor Cynthia Coccaro
attended Sirsi Book Ends training and NEO-RLS workshop
“Gripes, Grumbles and Grievances: Improving LaborManagement Relations through Effective Communication and
Grievance Processing.” Shelf Division Page Elizabeth
Grushcow attended Sirsi Book Ends training.
As part of the Page Hiring Committee, Materials Handling
Manager Daniel Oreskovic and Mrs. Coccaro conducted Page
Assessments.
Special Collections volunteer Melissa Carr was recruited
and hired as a SUB for the Library.
Fine Arts Librarian Bruce Biddle attended Circulation
training at Lake Shore on May 30th.
Subject Department Clerk Felicia Ramsey attended
BookEnds Operations 101 training on May 21st and Subject
Department Clerk Ebony Fields attended BookEnds
Circulation training on May 30th.
Lending Assistant Supervisor Tre Isaac assisted in
facilitating BookEnds SIRSI training to CPL staff on May
7th. Mr. Isaac continued serving as a member of the Labor
Management Committee. Subject Department Clerk Lamar
Edmondson attended a SEIU delegate meeting on May 15th.
Lending Manager Stephen Wohl assisted in facilitating
BookEnds Operations 101 training to CPL staff on May
21st. Lending provided circulation and SIRSI training to
a new substitute staff member Melissa Carr on May 21st
and 27th. Mr. Wohl represented CPL at the Spring CLEVNET
Circulation SIG Meeting on May 30th, held at Hudson
Library.

 956

Literature Department Library Assistant Nick Durda and
Manager Don Boozer attended Emma newsletter training on
May 9th, provided by Web Applications Assistant David
Reynolds. Literature Department Pages Erin Binkley and
Rebecca Johnson participated in Book Ends Training on
April 30th.
Interim TechCentral Manager Suzi Perez attended
onboarding for new managers at the Lakeshore Facility on
May 7th.
OLBPD Manager Will Reed attended the Ohio Braille and
Talking Book Program Consumer Advisory Meeting on May
23rd at the State Library of Ohio.
Other
Library Assistant Subject Department Adam Jaenke went to
the Stockyards, Clark-Fulton, and Downtown neighborhoods
to take photographs for Cleveland 20/20.
Ms. Sanchez began selecting images to be featured on
CPL’s Instagram promoting Cleveland 20/20. In
collaboration with Mr. Meggitt and Ms. Hoge, Ms. Sanchez
selects images, writes descriptions, and keeps track of
images uploaded by participating Cleveland 20/20
photographers. Some of the subjects thus far have
included portraits from Rooms to Let, Lorain Ave., the
west bank of the flats, and Carol & John’s Comic Book
Shop.
Ms. Eyerdam met with the Schweinfurth Committee on May
10th. The Committee selected trade catalogs and discussed
the possible purchase of some items from Cynthia
Caldwell (Rocky River). Her father, Walter G. Caldwell
was a Michigan-born architect who was active in
Cleveland from 1917 until his death (2003). He designed
numerous schools and municipal buildings throughout
Cleveland suburbs and Northeast Ohio. Schweinfurth
Committee members Tony Hiti and Ms. Eyerdam visited the
home on May 20th to review the catalogs, books, etc. Ms.
Eyerdam will make a recommendation to the Committee in
June. Special Collections Library Assistant Bill Chase
was given credit for research in the 2019 publication of
Bela Lugosi and the Monogram 9. The new CD player and
head phones arrived to supplement the Musicarnival CD
collection. The WPA prints from the CMA Teen Camp

 957

exhibit at the MLK branch were picked up and returned to
Special Collections by Ms. Eyerdam. Two Sirsi hand
scanners were installed for staff. Fine Arts & Special
Collections are working with Preservation to test out
commercial phase boxes for large orchestral sets and
misc. sized items from Special Collections.
BRANCHES
The branches continues to provide effective service and
programming for the communities they respectfully serve.
There were many highlights during the month of May which
were impactful. The Cleveland Museum of Art held
receptions at the MLK and Langston Hughes Branches to
highlight artwork chosen by students involved in the
curation program at the museum. Another meaningful
highlight was the workshop maintained by the Cuyahoga
County Office of Reentry on how to start a business as a
restored citizen. Additionally, the EAST 131 Branch in
collaboration with LAND Studio, MyCOM, Neighborhood
Connections, Western Reserve Land Conservancy
participated in the First Street’s Coalition’s 3rd
Annual Beautification Project as a way to revitalize the
East 131 community. Many patrons participated in the
mulching and gardening of the front lawn of the East 131
Branch. Many thanks to the Property Management team for
their support.
DISTRICT ONE
Eastman - Saturday, May 18, 2019 was the final day for
students to receive tutoring sessions from the
organization Shiksha Daan. Tutoring sessions were held
for students grades 2-12 in the areas of English,
reading and writing skills, Math, Science, and Social
Studies. The program will restart on September 14, 2019.
Lorain - The Lorain Branch partnered with The Rainey
Institute for Rockin’ with Rainey, a visual arts and
physical fitness series for youth. Other youth programs
held at the branch included a Cinco de Mayo and Angry
Birds in Real Life program, as well as a Mother’s Day
Craft, and a Sketchbook MakerLab. A Short Story Book
Club was also held every other Saturday for adults.
Library Assistant Computer Emphasis Peter Roth and
Marlie Hooper, Branch Manager Crystal Tancak, and Adela

 958

Santana provided Outreach at Village Prep Willard’s
Parent Night, H. Barbara Booker’s Career Day, the Max
Hayes Resource Fair, and Project Red Cord’s Night Out.
Roth, Santana, and Tancak gave two third grade classes
from Stockyard Elementary School a tour of the Lorain
Branch, a 3D printer demonstration, and an explanation
of programs and services offered including the Summer
Lit League, Lorain’s community garden, the seed library,
the sewing machines, and a tutorial of some of the most
popular databases.
Rockport - The Great Lakes Science center had their
finale making ice cream with liquid nitrogen with 75
people in attendance.
The Youth Services programs consisted of: Comic Book
Day, Marvel Jeopardy, Retro Videogame day, Giant Piano
Makerkit program, end of the year ice cream social and
monthly Lego program. Staff partnered with schools for
older children storytimes and programs including a fifth
grade tour of the library, Manga program at John
Marshall High School and presentations on Summer Lit
League at several schools.
Walz - The Cat Came Back…The Cat in the Hat returned to
Walz to promote the summer lit league. Ms. Jeannie
Gielty took the Cat around to Waverly, Louisa May
Alcott, Marion Seltzer, Jos. Gallagher, Madison
Community and Our Lady of Mt Carmel schools as well as
several appearances at the library. Our feline
ambassador is responsible for a really well received
kick-off for our summer programs. Many younger families
attended many of our programs. Applications for Summer
Lit League and for Library cards were processed as a
result of the kick-off.
Walz continues to do the Mobile Pantry which is
enormously popular with the students at the refugee
center and with the Hispanic Seniors.
West Park - One of the most well-reviewed programs in
West Park Branch history was held this month as the
youth staff hosted a Harry Potter escape room. Many
kudos go out to Libby Hampton for her incredible efforts
to make this program successful. The branch also hosted
Free Comic Book Day events and served cake and free
comics to all youth throughout the day. Tech Central

 959

provided many MakerLab programs with attendees enjoying
button making, laser engraving, and Tinkercad sessions.
The Facilities Management department presented the
Master Plan to the branch staff and answered questions
regarding its implementation. DM Dalby participated in
the CSU Leadership Academy's graduation ceremonies as
well as its culminating project at CMHA housing.
DISTRICT TWO
Brooklyn - The month of May was filled with new
activities and opportunities for Brooklyn Branch. This
included a collaboration with Arts Renaissance Tremont
which provided a music program, featuring violinist
Jimmy Thompson, for children from Denison during a
branch visit. Children’s Librarian Laura McShane
provided outreach to both Denison and Horizon Denison
schools to promote the Summer Lit League. Library
Assistant Computer Emphasis Lana Gionfriddo assisted
youth services staff with craft program for Cinco De
Mayo. The branch provided a Career Bootcamp in
collaboration with Tri-C. The meeting room was used for
an increasing number of family visitations. Interim
Branch Manager Ron Roberts continued with community
connections as he visited the Brookside Food Pantry to
provide library promotional materials and discuss future
collaborations, and attended the May Ward 14 meeting.
Carnegie West - Children's Librarian Helen Zaluckyj
attended the Orchard S.T.E.M. School's Career Day held
May 16, 2019. Zaluckyj spoke to five classrooms about
the educational requirements and day-to-day duties of a
children's librarian, and interspersed stories, science
activities, and craft demonstrations throughout the
session providing actual examples of current programs.
On May 18, 2019, neighborhood resident and
architectural historian Tim Barrett gave a lively
presentation to fifty-five people about the origins of
Ohio City, and the vast architectural treasures within
the neighborhood. The presentation ended with an intense
discussion about the changes happening in the
neighborhood regarding all the new construction and
accompanying tax abatements while long-term residents’
property tax bills increased significantly in the last
assessment; the two hour program exemplified a
“community of learning.” Branch manager Angela Guinther
received a hand-written note from United States Senator

 960

Sherrod Brown on May 6 thanking her for the work she
does on behalf of the Ohio City community; Brown visited
Carnegie West Branch twice in the month of April for
community meetings.
Fulton - ASPIRE ESOL and Sahaja Yoga Meditation classes
continued with the use of the meeting room, while the
America Reads Tutoring and Kids Cafe after school meal
program both completed their sessions for the school
year. Staff and patrons of all ages donned costumes and
enjoyed a variety of activities for the annual Free
Comic Book Day. The Legal Aid Society of Cleveland
hosted a Free Legal Aid Clinic, and the Northeast Ohio
Medical University hosted a free health screening
session. Children participated in weekly word games and
crafting activities, making pop-up cards for Mother's
Day, and creating their own campaign posters to coincide
with Primary Election day. Over one hundred students
from the Thomas Jefferson Newcomer's Academy visited the
branch for tours and received library cards. Staff was
also very active, visiting schools and daycares to
promote the upcoming Summer Lit League. Branch staff
also took the People's University on Wheels book bike to
the Stockyard Neighborhood Bike-a-thon which was held at
Clark Elementary School.
Jefferson - The Jefferson Branch continues to distribute
seeds for the Cleveland Seed Bank. The Think & Drink
Book Discussion Group tackled Stephen Hawking’s Brief
Answers to the Big Questions at the Prosperity Social
Club. The branch hosted an end of the year celebration
for two classes from Tremont Montessori. After school
activities included meetings of the Anime Club, gaming
with the Wii and the Nintendo Switch, karaoke, and a
Mother’s Day craft. Club Create, a project of Lake Erie
Ink, treated the young poets at the branch to pizza and
wings to celebrate the creation of a Poetree,
highlighting branch created poetry.
South - The South Branch youth staff have been busy
wrapping up their storytimes for the year, promoting all
the programs that the Library will have throughout the
summer, and signing patrons up for the Summer Lit
League. The Youth staff have also been promoting the
program to the schools via email and in person with the
schools and daycare. The South Branch has

 961

also started the Kindergarten Club, which prepares
children who will be entering Kindergarten, and is the
only branch offering bilingual storytimes. The Vocal
Arts Mastery Program put on a mini performance for the
South Branch, which showcased the material they have
been working throughout the year.
South Brooklyn - South Brooklyn Branch had numerous
organizations utilize the meeting room: Fruitful in a
Desert Place Ministry, Councilman Kelley’s Ward 13
Democratic Club/Community meeting, Old Brooklyn Knitting
Club, TechCentral compute class, Care Alliance and Girl
Scouts meeting. Children Librarian Ronald Palka-Roman
attended Youth Services meeting, Market Day Produce
Giveaway at Benjamin Franklin, Charles Mooney Career Day
and NEO Adaptive Librarians Meeting, and co-hosted
Kindergarten Club. District Manager Luigi Russo
participated in the Second District Community Relations
Committee, Old Brooklyn Safety Fair, and Page
Assessments.
DISTRICT THREE
Garden Valley - For the Month of May, Ms. Csia arranged
for a CFD Firetruck to come to the branch for a
recreational and educational visit. Ms. Csia and Mr.
Burks is currently planning and organizing the Teen Book
Club Program, and arranged a visit from the Rape Crisis
Center to facilitate a discussion during the Garden
Valley Team Program about healthy relationships. They
also visited various classrooms at Anton Grdina School
to promote Summer Lit League for the Garden Valley
Branch.
The Garden Valley Branch welcomed Branch Page, Ms. Mikel
Jordan, to the team.
Hough - LACE Michael Barkacs completed his Master's
Degree in Library and Information Science! The Hough
Branch surprised him with a party to celebrate this
accomplishment. Children's Librarian Ms. Spivey put on
her annual program the Mommy Awards to celebrate moms
with refreshments and balloons. This year she had some
mom's attend with their little ones! Library AssistantYouth Emphasis Mr. Young represented CPL at the end of
the year True2U event to promote the Summer Lit League.

 962

Mr. Young participated in the NEO Webinar, Tweens...
After School Behavior: To Battle or Engage. Mrs. Kmiecik
met with Liz Deagan from AdvantageCLE Tennis &
Education, formerly the Inner City Tennis Clinics, to
finalize a summer partnership. Mrs. Kmiecik and Lorain
Branch Manager Crystal Tancak began development of the
Bookends Module: Tech@Work. Mrs. Kmiecik and Ms. Tancak
have also agreed to expand the Bookends Module and
present a NEO-RLS Webinar, at their request, on Onedrive
and Sharepoint.
Martin Luther King, Jr. - Outreach to the community
continued in order to promote the Summer Lit League.
Visits were made to area school, daycares and recreation
centers by Youth Service staff, Ms. Angela Pope Margerum
and Mr. Eric Eubanks. Ms. Cynthia Davis conducted the
monthly club with Fenway Manor residents; the book,
“Never Tell by Lisa Gardner” was discussed.
College Now continued and concluded its ACT/SAT
preparation work with area high schoolers. Collaboration
between Fenway Manor and Cleveland Metropolitan Housing
allowed area senior citizens to obtain a vision
screening followed by vouchers to purchase glasses. The
Secretary of State representative Monique Cox-Moore held
a round table discussion for business owners on starting
and growing a business. The Cleveland Museum of Art held
a reception to highlight artwork chosen by students
involved in the curation program at the museum. Cuyahoga
County Office of Reentry held a workshop on how to start
a business as a restored citizen.
Sterling - In addition to the Summer Lit League, the
Sterling Branch is participating in KPMG's Summer
Reading Challenge for 75 children in grades K-5. Thanks
to a generous gift from KPMG, each child will receive
eight new books at registration. KPMG corporate
volunteers are returning to Sterling for the fourth
summer to support our reading initiatives. Branch
Manager Monica Rudzinski met with the Center for Arts
Inspired Learning to plan nine weeks of summer
programming at Sterling.
Woodland - For the Month of May, Ms. Drake El and Mrs.
Estrella facilitated the Rise and Shine Pancakes
Breakfast, where neighborhood families had the
opportunity to meet one another as they shared a meal,

 963

and listen to bedtime stories, dressed in their favorite
pajamas. Ms. Drake El and Nate LaPrairie conducted the
Paint with Me Program, where they taught young library
patrons the basic colors and what happens when they’re
mixed.
ASPIRE continues to promote Adult Basic Skills Classes
for the adult neighborhood patrons. The TechCentral
Department also provided Computer and Internet Basics
classes.
Mrs. Estrella was asked to participate in the Diversity,
Equity and Inclusion Committee.
The Woodland Branch also welcomed Branch Page, Ms.
Coletta Monda, to the team.
DISTRICT FOUR
East 131st Street - During the month of May, Interim East
131 Manager, Marina Marquez facilitated her first all
staff meeting, conducted a meeting with Brandi Glenn
regarding the BUCS Collaborative, met with Mr. Smith,
Manager of the Earle B. Turner Recreation, to promote
and register students for Summer Lit League, met with
Ciara Wilson, Community Engagement Program Manager at
Mt. Pleasant Now. In addition, Ms. Marquez attended the
Ward 2 Community Meeting and partnered with Paul Klodor,
Executive Director of Court Community Service, and
Lauren Moore, Municipal Drug Court Judge, to organize
the beautification of the landscaping at East 131 by
planting a Monarch Way Station and shrinking the front
lawn.
Youth staff, Kelli Minter and Rosa Simone held a Cinco
De Mayo program. The children learned about the history
of Cinco De Mayo and made Maracas. The program was so
popular that it was offered twice. Additionally,
Children expressed themselves through poetry through a
program called Poetic Power.
Fleet - Manager, Pasha Moncrief Robinson, participated
in Mound STEM Elementary School Career Day. She spoke to
students about her childhood, educational background,
and role as a Branch Manager. Mrs. Moncrief Robinson
participated in Slavic Village’s Homecoming Luncheon by
conducting a Q & A session with critically acclaimed

 964

author and journalist Veronica Chambers. She also
attended the Homecoming Community Partners Breakfast and
Homecoming Dance.
Library Assistant, Youth Emphasis, Anna Fullmer hosted
the Fight the Power program. Ms. Fullmer discussed civil
rights, soul music, played drums and made protest
buttons. Children Librarian, Tracie Forfia and Branch
Clerk, R-Riana Spivey created Fleet's Flowers. Fifteen
children and teens planted flowers in starter seed pots
and gave them as gifts for Mother's Day. Ms. Fullmer
presented Comic Book Day button making. Tracie Forfia
participated in the True2U event with CMSD. Ms. Forfia
also participated in Cleveland College Preparatory's
Career Day. Ms. Forfia spoke with students about her
career as a librarian and her educational background.
Harvard Lee - Youth Librarian Olivia Morales conducted a
Free Comic Book Day program with 35 patrons. Library
Assistant Youth Emphasis Kevin Moore attended the True2U
event for Cleveland Metropolitan School with the OPS
department, servicing 700 eighth graders on high school
and college choices. Ms. Morales and Mr. Moore were
active in outreach efforts around Summer Lit League,
including participating in family engagement events at
Louis Stokes Head Start, Adlai Stevenson, and Charles
Elliot schools. Interim Branch Manager Kristen Schmidt
and Ms. Morales conducted a MakerLab with Snap Circuits
and LittleBits kits for teens.
TechCentral conducted the Microsoft Word series for
adult patrons. Harvard-Lee hosted the Director of the
Department of Aging for a program on services the city
provides for older adults. Branch Clerk Rhonda Henderson
attended a NEO-RLS training titled A Day for Public
Service. Ms. Schmidt met with the Manager of US Bank to
plan financial literacy programming for children, teens,
and adults. Ms. Schmidt met with Tina Robbins of Ohio
State University's Extension program to bring nutrition
education to the branch in collaboration with Kids Cafe.
COO Jeremiah Swetel and Jasmine Sims met with the
Harvard-Lee team on plans for the branch in Phase 2 of
the Facilities Master Plan.
Mt. Pleasant - During the month of May the Mt. Pleasant
Branch welcomed Mr. Mark Tidrick as the new Children’s
Librarian and a new L.A.C.E. Ms. Larisse J Mondok. Mount

 965

Pleasant is now at full staff complement. Mount Pleasant
youth staff hosted a Make a Mother’s Day Present, End of
School Pizza Party, Make and Take Craft, and a Make Your
Master Piece: Digital Darkroom. MTP ended the month by,
once again, hosted the Read to the Beat Music Therapy
Classes that introduces music to story time.
Rice - Rice branch began the month of May with the
knitting group teaching patrons of all ages to knit or
crochet in anticipation for the end of the academic
school year and Warm up Cleveland. The District Manager
in collaboration with MTP’s youth librarian, Mark
Tidrick, facilitated a highly popular Free Comic Book
Day program with over 35 families participating.
Rice youth librarian, Whitney Johnson, facilitated
weekly impromptu craft programs, WVIZ Cat in the Hat
programming where families participated in weekly
literacy programming with the reward of a tablet full of
family friendly apps and programs, made mother’s day
cards, salsa dancing and salsa making in celebration of
Cinco De Mayo, learned about planting gardens where
patrons of all ages planted vegetable seeds to get them
sprouting indoors in order to replant in Rice’s rain
garden.
The National Congress of Black Women-Greater Cleveland
Council held their monthly board meeting at Rice with
Councilwoman Yvonne Conwell as president of the group.
Ms. Hutson graduated from Cleveland State University’s
(CSU) Leadership 28 training and began CSU’s Certified
Public Manager courses. Rice ended the month welcoming
Ms. Patricia McCoy to the team as the new full time
clerk.
Union - For the month of May 2019, Youth staff Mrs.
Steward and Ms. Johnson have prepared for the Summer Lit
League by attending outreach programs and enrolling
students for SLL at the neighborhood schools and day
cares. Other events included a Cinco de Mayo program
which introduced preschoolers to Mexican food, music and
other traditions while learning about the origins of the
holiday. Children and teens enjoyed an UNO tournament
with prizes and excitement. Title 1 teachers from E-Prep
Woodland Hills held an informational meeting at the
branch which discussed the importance of continuing

 966

literacy-enriched activities over the summer. The
meeting included students, parents and a representative
from Seeds of Literacy.
Read to the Beat and Kindergarten Club (ongoing weekly
summer programs) commenced this month. During Read to
the Beat, the Music Settlement plays music and reads a
story to patrons. Kindergarten Club invites children
ages 4-6 who have not attended kindergarten and their
families for kindergarten readiness activities and
supplies.
Ms. Williams and Ms. Johnson attended the year end
True2U Mentor Appreciation Celebration. Ms. Williams
attended the St Martin De Porres end of year
presentation which was held at the Main Library.
DISTRICT FIVE
Addison - Addison’s Facilities Master Plan meeting is
scheduled to take place on Tuesday, June 11, 2019.
Addison Branch Manager, Tonya Briggs, provided coverage
for Harvard-Lee’s FMP meeting which was held on May 9,
2019.
Collinwood - Youth Services staff provided ten school
visits collectively to East Clark, Euclid Park and East
Academy schools to get children signed up for the Summer
Lit League. Adam Tully participated in Career Day at
Hannah Gibbons. Manager, Caroline Peak, is attending
regular community events and workshops. Rene Jones,
President and CEO of the Rene Jones Empowerment Center,
will be hosting three events at the branch beginning on
May 30, 2019.
Glenville - The Tri-C Vocal Arts program is still going
strong for the students in preparing them for the
upcoming performance in June at Severance Hall. GED
classes are facilitated at our branch with low
attendance. Promotional efforts are in place to increase
awareness.
Langston Hughes - The RASHAD Center, via Cleveland State
University, has partnered with the Langston Hughes
branch to plan a tribute to Langston Hughes titled:
“Hughes, History and Harmony” featuring Spelman’s Dr.
Akiba Harper and Dr. Regennia Williams as Moderator for
October 5, 2019 International Teacher’s Day. Plans are

 967

underway to install four works of art based on the
history of protest on the west side of the branch along
East Blvd. Children’s Librarian, Christopher Busta-Peck,
was interviewed by News Channel 5’s Homa Bash, about the
history of a house on Lexington Avenue, built in the
1850s and owned by former ship builder, Luther Moses.
Cleveland Museum of Art held its kick-off for the Future
Museum, Teen Curation Team Project, on Thursday, May 30,
2019.
The branch welcomed Loreal Austin as the new branch Page
who replaced Aalia Abdullah. LACE, Kyle Auchter, has
accepted a position with the New York Public Library and
will leave the branch at the end of the month.
Memorial Nottingham - The branch hosted the annual
Congressional Art Competition exhibit on Saturday, May
18, 2019. Over 150 works of art were showcased by
students from local area high schools. The awards
ceremony featured remarks from CPL Director, Felton
Thomas and Congresswoman, Marcia Fudge.
Jowan Smith of the “Getting Our Babies to College 101”
initiative, continues with her request for tie
donations. Ties will be given to young at-risk makes at
a “School to Work” event this summer. Shalenah Williams,
a rep from the Cleveland Community Police Commission met
with several Branch Managers to organize a city wide
book club event entitled “Talking a Stance”. The purpose
of this book club is to increase community participation
in a dialogue that focuses on community and police
relations. The first discussion is scheduled to kick off
in June.
OUTREACH & PROGRAMMING SERVICES
SUMMARY
In the month of May the Library hosted approximately 232
programs ranging from Legal Aid workshops to outreach to
the arts programming for teens. The Library offered 75
preschool story times to children throughout the city in
addition to food service at all 28 locations. Education
services such as GED and ESOL classes, and SAT and ACT
preparation classes were held at 14 branch locations and
Main Library; K-8 tutoring will resume at 11 locations
in the month of May.

 968

ADULT
The Inaugural Sister Cities Conference began on May 1
with Opening Remarks in the evening from Director Thomas
and Global Cleveland Director Joe Cimperman and light
refreshments. On May 2, Mayor Frank Jackson, City
Council President Kevin Kelley, County Administrator
Armond Budish, the Jewish Federation of Cleveland,
Israeli city leaders, and award-winning Israeli pianist
Yaron Kohlberg all welcomed Beit She’an, Israel as the
newest Sister City of Cleveland. Delegates and students
from multiple Sister Cities led presentations and
participated in teleconferences throughout the day. On
May 3, CPL hosted a Naturalization Ceremony led by Judge
Polster. Approximately 50 people became new American
citizens and enjoyed music performed by Slovenian
musician Vlado Kreslin during kosher lunch.
Crescendo - The Cleveland Orchestra – Slavic Village:
Past & Present (May 17) showcased the Cleveland
Orchestra’s residence in the Slavic Village
neighborhood, featuring the works of turn of the 20th
century Slavic Village-based violinist, composer, and
music teacher Charles Rychlik. Approximately 85
attendees enjoyed narrations about Rychlik’s life and
career along with live performances of his music by
Cleveland Orchestra musicians and students from the
Cleveland School of the Arts. The most endearing
performances of the day were given by Slavic Village’s
newest violinists, the second-grade class from Mound
Elementary school who began learning to play the violin
during the 2018-2019 school year as part of a Cleveland
Orchestra program.
ideastream Storytelling - CPL staff storytellers
submitted nearly 20 audio recordings for ideastream’s
review by May 1. Ideastream re-recorded one story and
fully produced it for broadcast beginning Thursday, May
31. The story was about Robert Donona, an avid font
collector and typographer who lives in the Hough
neighborhood, and was originally interviewed by Chatham
Ewing, Manager of the Cleveland Digital Public Library.
HOMEBOUND & SENIOR SERVICES
Ms. Muckerheide worked with Early Literacy Coordinator
Rhonda Pai, Literature Department Manager Don Boozer,
and many other CPL staff to transition Homebound
Services to Main’s Literature department, distribute the

 969

Adult Mobile collection to other locations, and relocate three Mobile staff to Branch positions.
On May 21, the Age-Friendly Cleveland episode featuring
Ms. Muckerheide was uploaded to TV20’s YouTube channel.
She discussed CPL’s 150th Anniversary and the many
materials and services offered to older patrons, both
onsite and in their homes.
YOUTH
The 2019 Winter/Spring Express Yourself! Youth Art
Workshops offered by Art Therapy Studio kicked off on
January 26 ended on May 31. Programming will resume
August 2019. Hough Branch celebrated the end of the
Spring session with a student art show and celebration.
Art pieces by 34 program participants were displayed.
Youth Art Workshops are offered two days a week at E.
131st Street, Hough, Sterling and West Park branches. In
each session, participants learn to develop their art
skills using different media – drawing, painting,
sculpting – for self-expression. Workshops are
facilitated by licensed art therapists.
During the month of May, Braxton Educational and
Technology Consulting offered reading and math tutoring
at Union and Woodland Branches. Tutoring took place
Tuesdays through Thursdays, 4:00 – 6:00 p.m. and on
Saturdays by appointment. Braxton tutoring services
will continue throughout the month of June, and will
resume fall 2019.
CSU Viking Corps and America Reads tutoring began on
Monday, February 4 and ended on May 10 at Collinwood,
East 131st, Fleet, Fulton, Garden Valley, Glenville,
Hough, Langston Hughes, Rice, Rockport, Sterling, Walz
and Woodland Branches.
Assistance is offered in the
subjects of math, science, history, and language arts,
Monday through Thursday, 3:00-6:00 p.m. America Reads
tutoring will resume fall 2019.
Main library attendance has maintained an average of 25
students weekly. College Now, an ACT/SAT prep program
resumed classes on Monday, April 8th at Main Library.
Spring classes are scheduled to conclude Friday, June
14, 2019. A select group of students will take a tour of
various University’s post ACT/SAT prep sessions.

 970

Through a partnership with the Greater Cleveland
Food Bank, after-school snacks are delivered to all
Cleveland Public Library branch locations and Main
Library daily Monday through Friday.
In addition to
meal delivery, monthly nutrition education programs are
provided.
As of May 2019, The Cleveland Public
Library served approximately 12,575 after-school meals.
Summer Lunch is scheduled to begin Monday, June 3rd to
Friday, August 2nd.
Rainey Institute leads Cleveland Public Library youth
patrons in exploring visual art techniques, Get PHIT
(Physical health and international training) and dance
for ages seven and up. Lorain Branch hosted Rainey
classes during the month of May on Tuesdays and
Thursdays, with approximately six students in attendance
each session.
Sponsored by the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and PNC,
Cleveland Public Library youth staff were trained in
November 2019, to present Fight the Power programs at
branch locations, making Rock Hall educational resources
accessible to all at the Cleveland Public Library. As a
result of this training, various Fight the Power
presentations are scheduled throughout Cleveland Public
Library, starting in January 2019. Programs are
scheduled until May 2019. In "Fight the Power," students
will think critically about how rock & roll musicians in
the 1960s and early 1970s challenged audiences to
consider alternatives and make changes in their
communities. Students will listen to and view
performances by legendary artists as they are engaged in
identifying social commentary in lyrics, performance
styles, and historical images. In May 2019 Sterling
Branch had six children in attendance, while Fleet
Branch had twelve patrons.
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Invest in Children held their annual meeting on May 17th,
2019. The mission of Invest in Children is to mobilize
resources and energy to ensure the well-being of all
young children in Cuyahoga County, provide supportive
services to parents and caregivers, and build awareness,
momentum, and advocacy in the community around children
and family issues. Leslie Barrett and Erica Marks were
in attendance on behalf of the Cleveland Public Library.

 971

Debbie Hajzak provided training to OPS staff on LibCal
program/events calendar and the use of LibCal for
program submissions (May 16). She also participated in
the following: Labor Management Committee – May 9, SEIU
District 1199 Chapter Leadership Meeting – May 15,
Multiple meetings as part of the Homebound/Mobile
Services Reorganization/Transition.
Ms. Muckerheide introduced both Housing Court and Office
of Reentry representatives to Branch Managers and
attended the May 1 meeting. On May 9, she also attended
Cuyahoga County’s Complete Count Committee training for
the 2020 Census. Ms. Muckerheide provided training to
Literature staff on Homebound Services throughout May.
 
EXTERNAL RELATIONS & DEVELOPMENT AND FOUNDATION
EXTERNAL RELATIONS & ADVOCACY UPDATES:
 External Relations & Advocacy
o Ohio Senate Finance Committee Written
Testimony, HB166
 Director Thomas provided the Ohio Senate
Finance Committee a written testimony on
HB166, the biennial budget bill for FY2021. He thanked the committee for their
past support of the Public Library Fund
(PLF) and requested their consideration
to increase the PLF from 1.68% to 1.7%.
He articulated the impact the funding has
had on the Cleveland community and beyond
in the areas of education, workforce
development, and digital literacy.
o CPL Facilities Master Plan (FMP) Local Elected
Officials Outreach
 Director Thomas, Chief of Operations
Jeremiah Swetel, and Chief of External
Relations & Development Shenise Johnson
Thomas met with local elected officials
to provide an overview of the facilities
master plan. The meetings also serve as
an opportunity to address questions and
obtain feedback on FMP efforts. Outreach
will continue until all city and county
council members within the CPL footprint
have been briefed.

 972

o Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge Congressional
Art Competition
 CPL hosted Congresswoman Marcia L.
Fudge’s Congressional Art Competition at
the Memorial-Nottingham Branch in May.
Congresswoman Fudge presented Director
Thomas a plaque to honor the Library’s
150th anniversary at the event. Director
Thomas thanked the Congresswoman and
presented her with her official CPL
library card featuring the student
winner’s artwork from her 2018
Congressional Art Competition.
o AIM Hire: Workforce and Education Conference
 Representatives from the external
relations and development office and our
branches attended the Ohio Excels and
Governor’s Office of Workforce
Transformation hosted AIM Hire: Workforce
and Education Conference in Columbus. The
conference featured students, educators,
and businesses who have benefited from
ongoing education and business
partnerships. Lt. Gov. Jon Husted,
director of the Governor’s Office of
Workforce Transformation, was the keynote
speaker.
CPL DEVELOPMENT UPDATES:


Fundraising
o PPG Foundation grant received to provide
Rockport programming for teens through STEAM
o PNC contribution received in support of
CPL150’s Tribute to Cleveland efforts and the
CPL150 Anniversary Affair
o Philanthropy Ohio’s Corporate Funders Luncheon
 CPL hosted Philanthropy Ohio’s annual
luncheon for their corporate funders.
Director Thomas gave an overview of our
anniversary year and CPL programming and
partnerships. More than a dozen corporate
funders took a tour of The World of
Puppets exhibit, learned about the
library’s history and architecture, and

 973

visited TechCentral’s MakerSpace
receiving a personalized memento.
CPL FOUNDATION UPDATES:


Fundraising:
o CPL150 Sponsorship Secured in May, 2019:
 Eaton Corporation
o CPL150 Anniversary Affair Sponsorship Secured
in May, 2019:
 Third Federal
 Benesch Law
 PNC
o CPL150 Street Festival In-Kind Support Secured
in May, 2019:
 Cleveland Water Department
 Great Lakes Brewing Co.

COLLECTION & TECHNICAL SERVICES
Director of Collection Services Jean Duncan McFarren,
Assistant Director of Collection and Technical Services
and Acquisitions and High Demand Manager Sandy Jelar
Elwell, Collections Manager Pam Matthews, Collection
Management Librarian Laura Mommers, and Receiving and
Distribution Supervisor and Materials Handling
Supervisor James Clardy met with Baker & Taylor Public
Library Field Consultant Marne Fellows to discuss
ordering leased popular titles in book, Blu-ray, and DVD
formats. Ms. McFarren, Ms. Jelar Elwell, Ms. Matthews,
and Ms. Mommers met with Midwest Tape Senior Account
Executive Ed Altwies to review the Library’s current
physical and digital media needs and to receive updates
and announcements for Midwest Tape products and hoopla
digital media.
Ms. McFarren, Ms. Matthews, and Ms. Mommers attended a
meeting with Public Services staff to discuss the
possibility of re-organizing the picture book collection
by designated topics at the Martin Luther King, Jr.
Branch. Collections Services Managers and
representatives from each of the Collection Services
Departments attended a meeting led by Ms. McFarren to
discuss implementing procedures for providing tours of
the Lake Shore Facility and to identify standard
descriptions to be used for each of the Departments.

 974

Several staff from The Cleveland Museum of Art visited
the Lake Shore Facility and met with Ms. Jelar Elwell
and Catalog Manager Andrea Johnson to learn about the
SirsiDynix software and view demonstrations of how
Collection Services uses the Acquisitions, AddItem,
Cataloging, and Serial Control modules for library
materials. Ms. McFarren continued to participate in the
negotiation preparation sessions along with other
Administrators.
Acquisitions: The Acquisitions Department ordered 7,405
titles and 8,823 items (including periodical
subscriptions and serial standing orders); received
15,298 items, 1,112 periodicals, and 318 serials; added
734 periodical items, 56 serial items, 972 paperbacks,
and 590 comics; and processed 2,122 invoices and 82 gift
items.
Acquisitions Coordinator Alicia Naab and Collections
Manager Pam Matthews worked with Rakuten OverDrive
Account Manager Todd Warhola to try and acquire copies
of some of the bestselling eaudiobooks at a special
discount. Ms. Naab assisted Assistant Director of
Collection and Technical Services Sandy Jelar Elwell in
receiving materials that had been prepaid.
Acquisitions Librarian Leslie Pultorak continued to
assist with the unpacking and verifying of foreign
language materials for the Lake Shore Shelf/Shipping
Department.
Catalog: Librarians cataloged 4,618 titles and added
5,338 items for Cleveland Public Library, and added
1,968 titles for CLEVNET member libraries.
Technical Services Librarian Yeshen Dugarova-Montgomery
joined the rotation for handling email requests from
CLEVNET staff and other CPL.Newcat tasks. Senior
Catalog Librarian Dawn Grattino is reviewing her work.
Ms. Grattino created original catalog records for two
manuscripts from Ethiopia for Special Collections.
Technical Services Librarians Barbara Satow and Erin
Valentine attended the Ohio Valley Group of Technical
Services Librarians (OVGTSL) conference in Lexington,
Kentucky May 12-14. Catalog Manager Andrea Johnson,
Technical Services Librarian Amei Hu, and Ms. Valentine

 975

attended the Northern Ohio Technical Services Librarians
(NOTSL) Spring meeting on May 23. Technical Services
Librarian Michael Gabe met with International Languages
Department Manager Milos Markovic and Project Manager
Michael Ruffing to prepare for a discussion he will
facilitate at the Midwest Slavic and Eurasian Library
Consortium’s annual meeting in June.
Collection Management: Collection Management selected
1,278 titles and 9,317 copies, and spent $182,630 in
May.
Collections Manager Pam Matthews attended BookExpo and
Library Journal's Day of Dialog, both in New York City,
to learn about trends in editing and publishing and
about the most buzzed about forthcoming titles.
High Demand: The High Demand Department ordered 1,298
titles and 11,173 items; received and added 14,149
items; and processed 855 invoices.
Materials Processing: Technical Services Associates
cataloged 922 new titles for the Cleveland Public
Library and added 886 records for the CLEVNET libraries.
Technical Services Associates and Senior Clerks added
3,817 items. The Materials Processing Technicians
processed 27,190 items for the month.
Shelf/Shipping: The staff of the Lake Shore
Shelf/Shipping Department sent 94 items to the Main
Library for requests and 104 items to fill holds. Main
Library received 219 telescopes, the Branches received
511 telescopes, CLEVNET received 77 telescopes, CASE
received 6 telescopes, CSU received 5 telescopes, and
Tri-C received 1 telescope. A total of 819 telescopes
were shipped out. The Receiving and Distribution
Technician continued to receive assistance from staff in
other Collection Services Departments when needed and
sent out 376 items of foreign material and in total
16,334 new items were sent to the Acquisitions and High
Demand Departments.
Receiving and Distribution Supervisor and Materials
Handling Supervisor James Clardy participated in the
assessments to recruit for Page positions along with the
rest of the members of the Page committee.

 976

MARKETING & COMMUNICATIONS
The Library’s 150th anniversary (CPL150) campaign
continued its momentum in May with focus on the
Cleveland stories projects and the kick off to Summer
Lit League May 1st.
HIGHLIGHTS: Through our paid partnerships with WKYC and
WOIO, we had the unique opportunity to share the stories
of people who have been impacted by Cleveland Public
Library:




WKYC News Vignette: Director Felton Thomas, Jr.
WOIO News Vignette: O’Neal Family
WKYC News Vignette: Thomas D. Corrigan – taped, but
not yet aired

On May 10, we had the opportunity to appear on WKYC’s We
The People highlighting Cleveland 20/20 Project
featuring Aaron Mason, Director of Outreach &
Programming Services and Da’Shaunae Marisa Jackson,
Cleveland 20/20 Photographer. For a full list of CPL150
media releases and coverage, visit
https://150.cpl.org/newsroom/.
PAID MEDIA as of May 2019

FACEBOOK: Organic
2019
Net Page
Likes
Avg Post
Reach

2018

YoY

49

126

-61%

6,571

4,457

47%

NOTES

 977

Avg Total
Reach
Avg
Engagement

7,503

5,065

35

60

48%
-71% Lapping new ads in 2018.

TWITTER: Organic
2019

2018

YoY

NOTES

Top Tweet
Before / After: Main
25,800 9,845 40.3%
(Impressions)
Library's cleaning
#Cleveland @Indians 1989
Top Mention
- Yearbook. Found
4,899 6,596
(Engagements)
25.7% @Cleveland_PL Sports Ctr.
pic.twitter.com/YqjKiAOzxO
Extremely honored to
receive an Age Friendly
Cleveland Champion award!
We’re proud to be a
strategic partner with the
Top Media
@ClevelandAging and we
Tweet
8,600 7,332 17.3% couldn’t be the center of
(Impressions)
learning for a diverse and
inclusive community
without strong partners
like @CityofCleveland!
#CLESeniorday
pic.twitter.com/3OeJXkpe96
Engagement
is at the same
Summary
40
46
-13%
rate
v.
YAG
despite dips
Tweets
in new followers.
116
-17%
New Followers 96

PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
Painters
 M.L.K- painted 2nd floor meeting area.
 LSW- painted walls by handicap ramp, also painted 10th
floor hallway.
 Glenville- started painting branch and painted
Edgewater Book Box.
 Rice- patched damage ceilings in men’s and women’s
public restrooms.
Carpenters
 Harvard-Lee- removed glass block.
 Jefferson- installed new lock to side door.

 978








Fulton- patched hole in ceiling of parking lot
entrance.
LSW- installed cove base trim.
Union- patched parking lot.
Carnegie West- removed outside chess tables and
chairs and filled holes with concrete.
Garden Valley- hung thirty pictures for the Anton
Grdina Project.
South Brooklyn- repaired exterior doors.

Maintenance Mechanics
 MLK – ran snake and applied drain cleaner to unclog
public restroom sinks.
 Rockport – repaired leaking toilet in women’s public
restroom.
 South Brooklyn – replaced/secured electrical wall
outlet behind circulation desk.
 Lakeshore – replaced defective blower motor on
Technical Services/server room HVAC unit.
o Removed damaged strainer on chilled water
loop, replaced with fabricated stainless steel
basket from machine shop.
o Replaced defective and leaking chilled water
valve on air handler #3.
o Repaired leaking make-up water valve on
cooling tower/drained sump and replaced bad orings.
o Repaired leaking drain line on portable
dehumidifier in stacks area.
o Replaced leaking heating valve on meeting room
#4 VAV box.
 LSW/Main – repaired broken receptacle in hallway
across from room #35.
o Installed reverse acting relay to address
Siemens/Gamma lighting scheduling issues for
external lights on the front and west side of
Main building.
o Switched IT/data center HVAC from dry coolers
to Cleveland thermal chilled water.
 Fulton – installed replacement LED fixtures in main
lobby area.

 979








o Replaced bad ballasts on fixtures in main area
of branch.
Langston Hughes – repaired leaking toilet in men’s
public restroom.
o Replaced diaphragms and rebuilt flush
assemblies on all public and staff restroom
toilets.
Hough – branch too hot. Reset oil pressure safety
switch on main a/c compressor, replaced faulty fan
cycling switch on condensing unit.
Collinwood – snaked clogged floor drain in 2nd floor
mechanical room, checked/cleaned HVAC unit drain pan.
Fleet – started LED post top/parking lot lighting
retrofit project.
o Worked with Davey tree to remove bushes and
prune trees to increase visibility and improve
sight lines.
 E.131 – worked with the carpenters, Davey Tree, and
Kurtz bros. on branch beautification project.
 LSW/Main, Lakeshore, Branches – continued replacing
dirty pre-filters on air handlers and rooftop HVAC
units.

SAFETY & PROTECTIVE SERVICES
Safety Services
 SPS is working with Property Management to have key
cylinder locks removed from the LSW 8th floor vault
doors and LSW 9th floor map vault doors. Access
control cards should be the only method used to
enter the vaults.
 Officer Greg Green is a retired CPD officer who was
a State Certified Law Enforcement Traffic Accident
Investigator. He took pictures and compiled
information for a thorough report to be submitted
to CPL and the insurance company.
 A Safety Meeting was held at Fleet branch with the
CPD 4th district Commander and Supervisor’s, CPL’s
Director, Councilman Brancatelli’s representative,
and staff members. Staff was able to voice
concerns to CPD and CPL Leadership.

 980

PROTECTIVE SERVICES
Activity
Month

Total
Dispatch
Activity

May 2019
April 2019
March 2019
Feb 2019
Jan 2019
Dec 2018
Nov 2018
Oct 2018
Sept 2018
Aug 2018
July 2018
June 2018
May 2018

1958
1970
126
2249
2830
3166
3669
4128
3463
3788
4594
3785
5913

Total
Alarms

24
22
42
53
36
45
42
25
30
61
51
68
44

Branch
Incide
nts

Downtown
Campus
Incidents

Incident
Reports
Gen.

58
48
45
117
46
95
51
46
53
65
62
54
60

38
46
79
32
41
90
41
77
68
95
81
69
73

116
90
168
153
84
78
76
77
37
87
35
22
29

CPL access
activities

65
47
75
178
56
51
51
74
63
71
106
42
33

Special Attention, Special Events, and Significant
Incidents









SPS filled the following overtime requests: Fleet
coverage (special attention), Board event at Rice,
after hours meeting LSW 2, GC RTA event 5/6, Sister
Cities event LSW, Rice branch Community Meeting,
and City Music Cleveland 5/1.
SPS Manager Duncan attended the Ohio City Safety
Meeting at the Market Brewery with Carnegie West
Manager Angela Guinther.
A meeting is scheduled for June 10, 2019 with all
CPL Third District managers, branch managers, SPS,
CPD’s Third District Commander Anne Todd, and Mrs.
Parks.
Video requests fulfilled for Cleveland Police
Department, CPL Human Resources, and CPL Legal
team.
Safety & Protective Services posted Officers at
Fleet and Sterling branches for thirty days after
two misdemeanor incidents in May.
SPS officers are visiting the Edgewater Book Box
checking on staff members.

 981



Lt. Harris and SPS Manager Duncan attended the
Police Action Committee meeting with University
Circle Police.

Protective and Fire Systems
 Fire and burglar system troubles were addressed at
Rice, Harvard Lee, LSW, Mt. Pleasant, and Fulton
branches.
 ABCO completed a quote for the 2019-2020 fire
sprinkler inspections.
Contract Security
 SPS will be moving the Memorial Nottingham guard to
Rice branch. The SPS officer posted at Lake Shore
and Royce guard from Lake Shore will patrol and
respond to all requests for service at Memorial
Nottingham.
 Lt. Harris is the point of contact (POC) for Royce
Security issues, questions, or concerns.
Administration
 SPS Supervisors were measured for white uniform
shirts last week. This will help clearly identify
Safety & Protective Services Supervisors from Field
Officers.
 A procedure was developed for non SPS staff to
clarify when it is appropriate to call CPD instead
of SPS. The document is with the Knowledge Office
for review.
 SPS met with Human Resources and identified the
following times for producing CPL identification
cards: Monday thru Friday - 11:00 AM until 12:00
PM & 2:00 PM until 5:00 PM.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY & CLEVNET
Mentor Public Library, the newest member of CLEVNET,
went live on May 6, 2019. CLEVNET now totals 46 member
library systems. Strategic preparation and meticulous
project management by CLEVNET’s Library Systems and
Applications (LSA) Team made it another successful
migration. Cheryl Kuonen, Director of Mentor Public
Library, sent the following message to LSA staff: “Thank
you so much for your time and all your assistance with
our transition to CLEVNET. Your staff being here
yesterday was very helpful and calming. Overall, I think

 982

it went very smoothly and we’re happy to join the
CLEVNET family.”
Over 236,000 physical item records were added to the
shared CLEVNET collection with Mentor’s migration. And
over 63,500 patron records were loaded. With an annual
circulation last year of nearly three-quarters of a
million items, Mentor Public Library is now the tenth
largest library in CLEVNET. Mentor will contribute
$12,333.60 per month for membership to the CLEVNET
Special Revenue Fund for the remainder of the year.
The LSA Team is truly a team and is headed by Hilary
Prisbylla, Director of CLEVNET, who is recognized by her
peers as an authority in her field. In March, she was
nominated by a CLEVNET director to the board of the Ohio
Public Library Information Network (OPLIN), an
independent agency within the State Library of Ohio. The
OPLIN Board agreed that Ms. Prisbylla was well qualified
and submitted an appointment request to the State
Library Board on May 16, 2019, which was approved. Ms.
Prisbylla’s three-year term begins July 1, 2019. OPLIN
is a trusted and invaluable partner of CLEVNET,
providing member libraries with their broadband Internet
connections and CLEVNET as a whole with rack space at
the State of Ohio Computer Center (SOCC) in Columbus.
Meanwhile, the Network Team continued the cleanup of the
data center in the lower level of the Louis Stokes Wing.
Staff removed several cages, servers, network devices
and dead wiring from the CPL server room. In preparation
for moving a number of CPL’s servers to a more secure
environment at the SOCC in June, staff virtualized the
servers to new hardware for its consolidation and
failover capability.
There were no CLEVNET meetings in May. The next
Directors Panel meeting is scheduled for June 5, 2019,
at Bellevue Public Library. The next quarterly meeting
of the CLEVNET Directors will be held at Sandusky
Library’s Kelleys Island Branch on July 26, 2019.

 983

EXECUTIVE SESSION
Ms. Rodriguez moved to adjourn into Executive Session to
consider pending litigation and the employment and
compensation of public employees. Mr. Corrigan seconded
the motion, which passed unanimously by roll call vote.
The Board adjourned into Executive Session at 1:53 p.m.
Ms. Rodriguez moved to return to the Regular Board
Meeting. Mr. Corrigan seconded the motion which passed
unanimously by roll call vote.
The Regular Board Meeting resumed at 2:51 p.m.
Ms. Rodriguez presented the following item of New
Business.
RESOLUTION
AUTHORIZING
THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR TO
SETTLE CLAIMS
AND
LITIGATION UP
TO THE
AMOUNT OF
$150,000
Approved

Resolution Authorizing the Executive Director to Settle
Claims and Litigation Up to the Amount of $150,000
Ms. Rodriguez moved approval of the following
resolution. Mr. Corrigan seconded the motion, which
passed unanimously by roll call vote.
WHEREAS, From time to time, claims and lawsuits,
including administrative claims, are filed or lodged
against the Cleveland Public Library and its officers
and employees; and
WHEREAS, In some cases it is in the best interests of
the Library to settle a lawsuit or claim for a small or
modest monetary sum rather than incur the costs of
litigation and subject the Library to the possibility of
a large judgment for damages; and
WHEREAS, Certain courts and administrative agencies
require that the Library have full settlement authority
at mediations, arbitrations, and pretrials when
settlement negotiations are likely to take place; and
WHEREAS, Because the Board of Trustees of the Cleveland
Public Library only meets regularly once a month it is
not always possible to obtain Board authorization prior
to a settlement negotiation; and
WHEREAS, Therefore, this Board desires to grant the
Executive Director standing authority to settle claims

 984

and litigation up to an amount not-to exceed $150,000;
now therefore be it
RESOLVED That the Board of Trustees of the Cleveland
Public Library hereby grants the Executive Director,
CEO, the authority to settle any claim or lawsuit,
including any administrative claim, presented to or
filed against the Library, its officers and/or
employees, provided the settlement does not exceed One
Hundred and Fifty Thousand ($150,000), and further
provided sufficient monies are available for the payment
of the settlement amount. This authority shall be in
effect from the date of this Resolution for a period of
one (1) year, after which time the Director’s authority
shall be $40,000. Said settlement must be approved by
the Chief Legal Officer, who will notify the Board of
Trustees as soon as possible after a settlement is
reached.
Ms. Rodriguez adjourned the Regular Board Meeting at
2:52 p.m.

_____________________
Maritza Rodriguez
President

_______________________
Thomas D. Corrigan
Secretary

 985

GIFT REPORT FOR MAY 2019

 

 

   

 

 

DESCRIPTION QUANTITY

Month Year to date

Books 263 3,659
Periodicals 1 34
Publishers Gifts 1 5
Non-Print Materials 216 1,022
Total Library Service Materials 481 4,720

'TeCh Gifts . .. .. . .. n. 9 15
Total Technology Resources 9 15

FUND PURPOSE AMOUNT

Month Year to date

General Fund Unrestricted 0 35,085
Library Fund Restricted 0 1,513
Young Fund Restricted 0 13,163
Schweinfurth Fund Restricted 0 72,576
Founders Fund Restricted 0 53,300
Ohio Center for the Book Restricted 0 2,300
Judd Fund Restricted 0 61,670
Lockwood Thompson Fund Restricted 94,747 94,747
Learning Centers Restricted 0 25,000
Early Literacy Restricted 0 150,000

 

Total MoneyGifts 94,747 509,353

 

DONORS

CATEGORY QUANTITY
Year to Year to
Month date Month date
Library Service Materials 19 90 481 4,720
Technology Resources 1 . 4 9 15
Money Gifts 1 25 1 29

 

TOTAL GIFTS 21 119 491 4,764

986

THE STATE LIBRARY OF OHIO
COLUMBUS, OHIO
43201

OHIO FFY 2019

LSTA

CFDA 45.310

RESOURCE SHARING PROJECT

FUNDED WITH FFY 2018 CARRYOVER FUNDS (PROJECT 11?8-19)
AND FFY 2019 FUNDS (PROJECT 11-7?20)

IMLS

AGREEMENT
Ohlo Library for The Blind and Physically Disabled
State Fiscal Year 2020

THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered info This 4th day of June, 2019, between
THE STATE LIBRARY OF OHIO, hereinafter referred To as The STATE LIBRARY, and The
BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE CLEVELAND PUBLIC LIBRARY, hereinafter referred To as The
LIBRARY,

WHEREAS, it is The policy of The STATE LIBRARY To assure The provision of excellent
library service To every resident of The State of Ohio: and

WHEREAS, due To The need for specialized materials and equipment To provide
library services for blind and physically disabled residents, individual libraries cannot
provide such services; and

WHEREAS, The LIBRARY has been designated by The Library of Congress as a
Regional Library for The Blind and Physically Handicapped, and The STATE LIBRARY has
concurred in This designation; and

WHEREAS, The STATE LIBRARY has designated The LIBRARY as its agency to
provide services for Those blind and physically disabled readers who are eligible for The
service, and who reside in any of The 88 counties: and

WHEREAS, the services are necessary and valuable To the blind and physically
disabled residents of Ohio, and

WHEREAS, such library service is one within The purposes of The law,

NOW THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the mutual undertaking and
covenants of The parties as herein set forth, and for oTher good and valuable
consideration, The receipt and sufficiency of which are mutually acknowledged, The
parties do hereby agree and covenant as follows:

Part A

Part 

 

987

THAT The LIBRARY shall be administered in the following manner:

. The CLEVELAND PUBLIC LIBRARY shall administer the program in accordance

with the Annual Plan of Service [Appendix A) and The budget submitted to
the STATE LIBRARY as outlined in Appendix attached to This Agreement. The
Cleveland Public Library will serve all 88 counties in Ohio.

The CLEVELAND PUBLIC LIBRARY will submit quarterly narrative and financial
reports to The STATE LIBRARY by the 15th day of The months of October 2019,
January 2020, and April 2020. A Termination report will be submitted no later
Than July 15, 2020 and a close?out financial report will be submitted no later
than September 15, 2020. The narrative reports shall describe The activities
carried out toward reaching the goals of the project.

Staff of The State Library shall visit the CLEVELAND PUBLIC LIBRARY during July
2020 to review the program with personnel of The CLEVELAND PUBLIC
LIBRARY. This review shall be based upon the annual budget and plan of
service. The STATE LIBRARY shall furnish a written report of this evaluation.

The CLEVELAND PUBLIC LIBRARY will work with the State Library by providing
publicity. training, monitoring and evaluation of the CLEVELAND PUBLIC

LIBRARY.

The STATE LIBRARY shall:

1 .

Pay The LIBRARY for expenses for The period of July 1, 2019 - June 30, 2020 an
amount not to exceed $1,508,194.00. $150,000.00 shall be paid from FFY 2018
LSTA carryover funds, $84,000.00 shall be paid from FFY 2019 LSTA funds, and
$1,274,194.00 shall be paid from Fund 5GBO from ALI 350?605.

Payment shall be made as follows:

$1 25,682.00

$108,318.00
$17,364.00

$125,683.00
$125,683.00
$125,683.00
$125,683.00
$125,683.00
$125,683.00

Fund LSTA

Fund LSTA

Fund SGBO
Fund SGBO
Fund 5680
Fund SGBO
Fund SGBO
Fund 5080
Fund SGBO

July 2019 or upon signing of This agreement by
both parties.

August 2019

August 2019

September 2019

October 2019

November 2019

December 2019

January 2020

February 2020

Part 

988

$125,683.00 Fund SGBO March 2020
$125,683.00 Fund SGBO April 2020
$125,683.00 Fund 5GBO May 2020
$125,683.00 Fund SGBO June 2020

FFY 2018 federal funds will be encumbered by September 30, 2019 and
disbursed by October 31, 2019.

The State Librarian, at her discretion, may negotiate the percentage of state
funds to be received each quarter by the LIBRARY.

The LIBRARY SHALL:

I.

Make available services out-lined under provisions of its annual plan of service
for blind and physically handicapped readers as approved by the STATE
LIBRARY.

Provide to the STATE LIBRARY quarterly financial reports and three narrative
reports against the approved plan of service and budget. Fiscal reports must
be submitted in reporting format required by the State Library.

Provide to the STATE LIBRARY no later than September 1, 2020 a financial and
narrative report of all receipts and expenditures incurred pursuant to the
implementation of this agreement.

4. Recommend policy for the program to the STATE LIBRARY.

Part 

Conditions:

1.

Any special grants or gifts from sources other than the STATE LIBRARY shall not
be deducted from the LIBRARY's appropriation as set out in Part B, Section 1
and may be used to further the implementation of the annual plan of service.

Any changes either in the operating budget or in the service in. general from
the approved annual plan of service shall be approved in advance in writing
by the STATE LIBRARY.

Funds received by the LIBRARY from the STATE LIBRARY under this agreement
shall be designated for the LIBRARY and shall be expended pursuant to the
provisions of the attached plan of service. FFY 2018 federal funds must be

989

disbursed by October 31. 2019 and FFY 2019 federal funds and SFY 2020 funds
must be encumbered by June 30. 2020 and disbursed by August 31 . 2020.
Any funds not expended shall be returned to the STATE LIBRARY. Said plan of
service may be updated or otherwise amended by mutual agreement
between the LIBRARY and the STATE LIBRARY to meet ongoing program
needs

4. All receipts and expenditure relating to this program shall be subject to audit.
The CLEVELAND PUBLIC LIBRARY agrees to submit to the STATE Library within
30 days from the date the report is issued. one copy of its audit report for
each fiscal year which includes any part of this project period.

5. This agreement is subject to annual review by the parties hereto.

6. It is expressly understood and agreed to by the parties that none of the rights.
duties. and obligations herein shall be binding on either party. until all
statutory provisions of the Ohio Revised Code. including but not limited to
section 126.07. have been complied with and until such time as all necessary
funds are available or encumbered.

In the event the state and/or federal funds included in this contract become
unavailable to the State Library. the STATE LIBRARY shall modify or cease the

terms of this agreement based upon the financial restrictions imposed by the
State of Ohio or the federal government.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF. the respective parties hereto have caused this
Agreement to be executed the day and year first above written.

PUBLIC LIBRARY THE STATE LIBRARY OF OHIO

. 

 

President, Board of Trustees State Librarian
June 4. 2019

Approved by the State Library Board. May 16, 2019

990

Appendix A
CLEVELAND
Counlies Served by The Ohio Library for The Blind and Physically Disabled

All 88 counTies in Ohio are served by The Ohio Library for The Blind and Physically
Disabled.

Cleveland Public Library

Ohio Library for the Blind and Physically Disabled

SFY 2020Approved Budget

1. Salaries
2. Benefils
3. Compulercosls

4. Space ren?ral

5. Malerials/Equipmen?r/Telephone

Services

6. Adminislra?rive Services

7. Travel

8. Programming and Ou?rreach

8. Volunteer program

TOTAL

STATE FEDERAL
$713,730.00 $175,964
261 ,120.00 47,928.00
77,280.00 -0-

1 85,1 74.00 

9,780.00 10,108.00

1 7,860.00 
2,700.00 -0-
6,1 50.00 -0-

400.00 -0-
$1 .274,1 94.00 $234,000.00

Appendix 

TOTAL
$889,694.00
309,048.00
77,280.00

1 85,1 74.00

1 9,888.00

1 7,860.00
2,700.00
6,150.00

400.00
$1 508,194.00

991

992

integrated
Precision
Systems. inc.

 

Company Address 9321 Ravenna Rd Quote 13368 - 1419
Twinsburg. OH 44087
US

Created Date 6!12!2019
Expiration Date 7f26l2019

Prepared By Rob Jackson Contact Name Eric Herman
Phone (216) 644-3505
Email riackson@ipsid.com
Biil To Name Cleveland Public Library HQ Ship To Name Cleveland Public Library HQ
Bill To 325 Superior Ave Ship To 325 Superior Ave
Cleveland. OH 4411442171 Cleveland. OH 44114?12?!
Scope

lnstail (1) people counting camera at the main entrance to Brett halt Connect to the CPL polling account. Polling coverage
will run from 7l?1/2019 to 1015:2019 when it will be added to the annual Peopie Counting contract.

Note:

Cleveland Public Library to provide and install wire from switch to Orbit locations, switch to location, switch, and
device mounting hardware.

(1) year warranty included with installation

Polling for (1) device included in quote. Polling for other device is included in annual system contract.

Project Detail

 
      
   
   
   

       

  

IPS LABOR Installation $840.00 $840.00

SHT-Orbit5 Orbit 5 1.00 $3,490.00 $3,490.00
IFS-Shipping Shipping and Handling 1.00 $49.20 $49.20
System Maintenance Contract 1.00 $202.50 $202.50

Total Price $4,581.70

*Uniess quoted, applicable sales tax and shipping are not included.

Proposal Terms
?eneratlems

A purchase order or signed proposal is required prior to any start of work

Payment terms

Unless speci?ed in Master Service Agreement, payment is due Net 30 days from invoice date.

Quote approval

 

 

Signature Date Purchase Order it

This quote and proposed productlservice are subject to the 

SUMMARY OF EASTMAN READING GARDEN IMPROVEMENT PROJECT BIDS

 

Landscape
Contractor Improvements Irrigation Alternate 1 Alternate 2 Total

Brookside Construction
Services, Inc. $61,477 $14,160 $16,337 $127,725 $219,699

Royal Landscape Gardening,
Inc. $56,335 $13,544 $17,510 $137,390 $224,779

Vizmeg Landscape inc. $87,100 $22,200 $19,700 No Bid $129,000

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

993

994

roposal For Design Services
une M, 2019 rev_l

Cleveland Public Library
Martin Luther King Jr. Branch Proiecf
Cleveland, OH

50 IL
JKURTZ

 

995

4- JKURTZ May 24, 2019

Board of Library Trustees
Cleveland Public Library
325 Superior Avenue
Cleveland, OH 44li4

RE: Cleveland Public Library
Martin Luther King Jr. Branch
Design Reboot Proposal

Dear Trustees,

We are honored to move Forward in designing a new, state-ot-the-art branch library that will
pay tribute to the legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. We admire the ambition to make the
MLK Branch an integral part of the ongoing mixed-use proiect at the confluence of four distinct
neighborhoods in Cleveland. We are excited at the prospect of setting the tone for the larger
development proiect that will exist at the Forefront ot the changing community.

We are enthused about your vision For building upon the prestige of this neighborhood, enriching
the architecturally varied and distinctive character of University Circle. We look forward to
creating a space that not only honors Dr. King's legacy but also increases public usage by
serving as a center of a diverse and inclusive community.

We recognize that the Library Trustees seeks to ensure the connectivity at this library with the
new developments and existing neighborhood. We believe that 30 it JKURTZ is poised to
strengthen this narrative, taking design risks to bring the library to a broader audience. We will
work to develop a holistic narrative that takes these diverse stakeholder and public identities into
account while also designing a space that will adapt and thrive over time.

We are excited be a part of making the library a reality.

Sincerely,
w?
. 

Jing Liu Jonathan Kurtz,
Principal, SO-IL Principal, JKURTZ


1330-634 0:514 - 2

Design Team:

996

Our team is uniquely positioned to lead this protect to success. We have a record at realizing
innovative proiects that are for learning, arts, community and urban development

across all scales.

We have assembled the following team and have itemized the design services each firm will

provide:

 



Lead Design
Architecture
Interior Design
Specifications


Landscape

 

KU RTZ

Associate Design
Architect of Record
Interior Design
Speci?cations
Landscape

 

GPD

Structural Engineering
Mechanical, Electrical, and Plumbing Engineering

Civil Engineering

Fire Protection/ Lite Safety
Sustainability 

 

Tec Studio

Lighting Consultant

Data/Telecom

 

 

 

 

 

 

Security
Nesnadny Schwartz Woy?ndins
Identity Graphics
Exhibits
Threshold Acoustics
SGH Envelope
PCS Estimating

 

 

MM?lri?mry Proposo//20/?? 06.x? - 3

997

Proiect Description:

The proiect is For a library located on three parcels located on the north side of Euclid
Avenue in University Circle, Cleveland, Ohio.

The new library wili be ground and second [mezzanine] levels. This protect will
include a residential development above the library by others, with which we will
coordinate the design of the library to maintain design intent. The program and other
requirements are represented within the Schematic Design Submission as delivered
on June 14, 2019.

This proposal includes basic Architectural and Engineering services associated with
the MLK Library as well as coordination with the architect oi the residential tower.
This proposal assumes that there will be shared spaces and/or building components
which will require coordination with the tower as well as components at the tower
which will require cursory review and have some bearing on the Library.

Included below are a series at assumptions that this proposal has relied on which
have originated out at initial discussions with the Library and their pre-construction
services advisor.

Architectural- We will provide architectural design services on components relating
to the First two stories at the overall building structure with the exclusion 0F those
items belonging solely to the residential tower development. These exclusions
include residential elevators and residential lobbies. We have assumed the design
at the Facade including coordination and detailing at those components which wrap
the residential portions oi the ground level ot the building, these will require close
coordination with the tower architects which we have allotted For.

Furniture Fixtures and Equipment This proposal includes interior design and FFE For
which we will coordinate with designated library personnel to identity and provide
direction. It assumes a Furnishing supplier is engaged to specity and purchase
Furnishings and equipment to meet the libraries needs design and material selection
From the architects.

Civil MDP to provide all civil to within 5? at building along with related approvals.
We will review, coordinate, and verity Civil accommodations are adequate For
any Library needs through providing building related inFrastructure toads and
requirements. See GPD in appendix For claritication.

Landscape- We have included landscape services From surrounding curbs to the
building. We exclude alley way, service drive, crosswalks, and items outside at this
purview. We have included FFE coordination as it relates to Landscape elements.
We have not included Landscape services For the plaza to the east nor any
accommodation For on?structure landscape components. See GPD in appendix For
clari?cation.

Structural - it is currently conceived that will provide all superstructure and
Foundation design, including design oF the Library 2nd Floor assuming this is all
part oF the concrete plinth. We will provide all sub-structure For the Library, ground
level Facade and related structural requirements that might impact loading at the
superstructure [canopy, curtain wall, railings, ceilings, stairs, etc.] See GPD in
appendix For claritication.

MIA/library ?30434 Proposa?fO/Q 0:5. - 4

998

Proiect Description:

MEP - Main service for all utilities to and from building will be provided by MDP.
We will provide loading requirements for the Library. Roof drains and roof will be
by MDP but coordinated through our space and within library performance criteria
cast iron to reduce noise vs. PVC etc.]. We will provide drainage as related to
canopy and or coordinate that ioading with roof drainage approach. It is assumed
that services will be brought into a central room shared electrical room] and then
the panel and library service will be designed by our team. See GPD in appendix 
for clarification.

Lighting and Technology Design - this proposal includes lighting, AV, Technology,
and Security for the Library as well as ground level facade, entry, and associated
landscape lighting. See Tec Studio in Appendix for clarifications.

Signage/ldentity/Wayfinding and Anisfield Wolf collection exhibits - We have
provided both general building signage and graphics and design of the Anisfield
Wolf exhibits within this proposal. It does not include the fabrication of such signage
and exhibits. See in Appendix for Clarifications.

Interactive exhibits We have included a line item for both conceptual study
of interactive exhibits as identified in our competition proposal as well as
exploration of the technology associated with such exhibits [Tec Inc]. Because these
exhibits could vary greatly in both scope and complexity, we have not allocated
services for the design and execution of any one of them but propose that once
defined, values and the team required to execute will be assembled. We will also
assist CPL in identifying and allocating a budget for such exhibits. See and Tec
Studio proposals in appendix for clarifications.

Acoustics - As the accepted design for the MLK Library includes a large degree
of open areas and architectural volume, we have included acoustic design and
oversight by specialists in the industry within this proposal. See Threshold Acoustics
in appendix for clarifications.

Envelope - This proposal includes envelope consulting for thermal and moisture
performance, skylights, glazing, fenestration, doors and walls. See Simpson
Gumpertz Heger in appendix for clarifications.

Cost Estimating - This proposal includes one costs estimate and one cost reconciliation
for DD and the same for CD. Two estimates and reconciliations in total. We assume
the CD estimate and reconciliation will be at either 50discussed with CM and CPL. See PCS &Estimate in appendix for clarifications.

Permits, testing, and inspections are assumed to be by the Construction Manager
with the assistance of the architectural team in providing required documentation.
Planning and design approval by the City of Cleveland and other AHJ [Midtown
design review] will be by design team, coordinated with overall tower approvals.

We have included fees for architecture and engineering outlines, narratives and

documentation for a conceptual stand-alone building for use by estimators in
evaluating costs related to coordinated bookkeeping.

Mi?lr?raryDD-O?i - 5

999

Preliminary Design Schedule

The schedule outlined below is based on initial conversations with CPL and may be adjusted
as the selected CMR is engaged. This schedule assume release of the design team to begin the
Design Development Phase upon completion oi: the currently underway Schematic Design phase.
It is therefore assumed that modifications that must be made in relation to SD cost estimates will
be made in the course at the Design Development phase.

Project Timeline .
Project I MLK Library 03.18.2019
Comm 1 1801.03

Dur.
Task Start End lurks.) Resp.

     

Project Duration

 

 

'K-Design Process 3/20/19 5/14/19 12.3 

 

Design Development I 9f6/19 11.6 

 

 

Construction Documents 1/31/20

 

Bidding 8: Negotiation 1/10/20

 

   

Construction Administration 2/3/20 5f3f21 65.0

00-04 Pro/00501720} 9 06. 14? - 6

1000

Proiect Fees

Fee schedule breakdown by discipline by phase:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Library Fees mos

Phase DD CD . Bidding CA Fee Totals 96

Percentage of Fee Per Phase 18% 30% 270% 25% 75%

Design Services 

Architectural 5 189,000" $315,000 $21,000 5155500 757,500? 525% 50-0 RTZ

Interiors - Incl. Above 0.00% RTZ

Mechanical 5 47,300 5 77,000 000

Electrical 5 33,700 5 53,000 0 ?415 GPD

structurai .. 5 17,200 28,000 0.19% GPD

Site Coordination .. 1,375 GPD

C0nstructi0n Administration - GPD 5 75,000 GPD

Base Design Fees 1,032,740 6.88%

Interiors 5,400 5 5,000 5 500 5 22,500 so-iL

Acoustical Design 5 3,000 5 10,000 7,000 25,000 Threshold

Waynnding 12,500 10,350 5,450 25,800 5 64,500 ii+s [Phase allocation estimated]

Exhibit Design [Anlsfield Wolf] 3,900 5 13,350_ 53,3150" 5 17,800 5 40,500 [Phase allocation estimated]

interactive Dsiplair Exploration - Conceptual Study 2,040 5 3,060 1,020 4,080 5 N+s [Phase allocation estimated]

AudioVisual Design

Light"? Dam?" 5 20,000 5 15,500 7,300

Sewnty Design

DataiTelecom 5 44,200 Tec Studio

Interactive Deipley Exploration - per display 5 1,500 5 2,250 5 750 5 3,000 5 7,500 Tec Studio [Phase allocation estimated]

Facade Consultant 5 24,000 18,000 5 SGH

LEED {basic} 5 13,050 25,375 13,775 5 54,375 GPD

Landscape Arch - 5 2,275 350 5 07s 5 GPD

Cost Estimator 5 13,700 10,805 . &Est mete [Pcsi

Permitting 7,500 5 7,500 GPD

Totals $352,574 $502,141 $48,955 $425,130 1,389,100 9.3%

Totals 5 113393-00 9.3%

Estimate of Relmbursables $67,425 Direct expense no mark-up
Terms

This proposal is based on the competition reboot and Schematic Design phases previously completed for this proiect
and their understanding of the design and construction timeline.

will act as Design Architect and will collaborate with JKurtz Architects as Architect of Record. A scope
breakdown has been provided as an addendum to this proposal.

2919-04 - 7

1001

Billable Rates

2019 I-Irlx rate 2019 Hrly rate
SO-IL GPD
Principal $325 Principal $178
Sr. Associate $210 Director $176
Associate $180 Chief Architect/Engineer $160
Designer $160 Sr. Proiect Manager $160
Intern $90 Construction Manager $155
Proiect Manager $140
Project Engineer $130
JKURTZ Professional Surveyor $125
Principal $225 Planner $120
Associate $160 Associate PM $115
Designer $135 Project Architect $105
Intern $85 Design Engineer $110
Civil Protect Coordinator $110
Civil Engineer $110
Tec Studio Construction Supervisor $100
Principals $150 Architectural ProiectCoordinator $100
Associates $125 Illustrator $95
Designers/Draftsman $100 Architectural Designer $90
Landscape Architect $90
Threshold Acoustics Survey Proiect Manager $105
Partners $250 Environmental Engineer $80
Principal Consultants $200 Interior Designer $78
Senior Consultants $175 Landscape Designer $70
Consultants $125?$ 150 Proiect Support $70
Technical Staff $100-$125 AcImin $65
CAD Technician $60
Nesnadny Schwartz Surveyr Technician $60
Principals [CreGIiVe Design Directors] $185 Intern Architect/ Engineer $55
Design Production Staff $165

ProposaX/??i??df? - 8

1002

Appendix A
Architectural Scope Breakdown

DIVISION OF TASK RESPONSIBILITIES FOR ARCHITECURAL SERVICES

Client

Cleveland Public Library

Project MLK Branch

Manager CM

Architect of Record 
Design Architect - DA

Symbols:

Major Activity by Designee

0 Minor Activity by Designee

Design Intent-only review

- No responsibility by Designee
joint Resposnibility

Notes:

 

 

 

 

Designee
JKURTZ 
DA
C. DESIGN DEVELOPMENT PHASE 40% 60%

PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
a- 2S 9 
19- 9 
.9: If, 
.9: design work for 
.9: .9 2S 
submittal 0? deliverableMain point of contact and coordination with Development Team 
ARCHITECTURE
If 9 
9 >5 
.9: review and . 
..J..- WEIQR II 
HIE: D. 9 IS 
K. 9 
99.93:9Date.vtilitxravtina 2S .9 
n, ProwdeIntenormaterlalspalette0 )Develop public vertical circulation (open/convenience 

Proposa/fEOIQ 06. - 9

1003

 

 

 

Appendix A

Architectural Scope Breakdown [Continued99999.991999-959 separat.i9t!..and 9 
9 9 
IT: AV 3? security [99999919999 9 
If 
-.Provide interior produot data material selections 

3. "'65sT BUDGET CONTROL
a. Review DD cost estimate from GM it 

b- . 

4. PRESENTATIONS REVIEWS

. . . >3 .. 
-9.- [99.999.99.99999.999999.New 995 for engineering . . 25 .9 
90?9m9m5 W.IID..?.meittaI requirements 3? 00993 9 
-9. B. 2S 
6 DELIVERABLES
-(1. Coordinate specifications needed at DD Phase for CM process 2E 
D. CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS 60% 40%
1. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
..9.-. 999.9999 submittalotdeliverables . 31?. 9 
.9 9' [9999191399 90?? 9f contact W99 9 
"h Main point of contact and coordination with Development Team 
2 ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN
9 
Provide sketch resolution based on DD review comments 0 

9.0.04 Propose/72079 0am - 10

1004

Appendix A

Architectural Scope Breakdown [Continued]
9. 9 
'99999. 9 9. 
9 9. 
Final color and finish materials selections 

 

Provide details for final design components, enlarged drawings material
connections and transitions s, Facades Storefronts and Glazing, Door and

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9. door details, devices and services 

.h 9 PS 
I5 
Enlarged Floor P'ans With'93?99' 9 29 
FF 9 999999991999 9 
9 9'9199' manua'x 9 
I Develop 9'.i9.r.n9t99 9 
Ll Coordinate CD3 between disciplines 

 

4. PRESENTATIONS REVIEWS

 

.9 2S 
.10..- PS 

5. SUBMISSIONS
a. Submit to Fire Marshall 

6. QUALITY ASSURANCE

-9: 9S 
.9 2S 
.9 E9 99999919999 2S. 9 

7. DELIVERABLES

9- 25 9 
.9 99%..99999911991 BIDDING ASSITANCE 70% 30%

1. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
a. Schedule and coordinate design workshops meetings 

019-04 PropomVZOfQOde - II

1005

AppendixA

Architectural Scope Breakdown [ContinuedCONSTRUCTION SERVICES 70% 30%

'1 . PROJECT ADMINISTRATION

E3. TIT 
. . . . 
ebeeivetien 0

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

lei-weeklythe 909999990? de99.meiite [RFt'el 2S 9 
Prepare and i989e clarificationetset9t199 2S 9. 
i Review clarification sketches 9. 29 
899199-999-999r999iflnet interior it eisterier metetiete inelucting aesthetimeetszutte it. it 
ti Erevide tinsel review etPr9199teiid 2S 9 
i teeue certificate eteubeteiitiel completion application fertineteevment+ 
Complete Record Drawings Requirement?] 

Proposmf/EOJQOdM - I2

Appendix 
Sub?Consultant Proposals

1006

library 019? CA ?vposa?/EOIQ 06. - 13

1007

VX 

 

520 3 th St 2531 Ph 330.F72.2100
R0 a :4n311ree 

Mr. Jon Kurtz, AIA February 8, 2019
Principal Revised June 13, 2019
JKURTZ Architects ?018074-00

10803 Magnolia Drive
Cleveland OH, 44106

RE: Cleveland Public Library MLK Branch

DearJon:

We are thrilled to be part of this great team you have assembled and won for the CPL MLK
design competition. The project will be both challenging and culturally momentous to our
region. Foilowing the concept design phase, we look forward to continue working closely
with you and Jing to achieve your vision for this Cleveland landmark.

Project Description

Our team was honored to participate with you in the design competition last year for the
construction of this new state?of?the?art branch library that will honor the legacy of Dr.
Martin Luther King, Jr. Located along the western boundary of the University Circle
neighborhood. The new MLK Branch will become an integral part of a large, residential and
commercial mixed?use project at the confluence of four distinct neighborhoods and
districts: the Hough and Fairfax neighborhoods, the University Circle educational and
cultural district, and the vast Cleveland Clinic hospital campus. This offers CPL a unique
opportunity to create a library design that sets the tone for the larger development project
that will serve as a gateway amongst these distinct neighborhoods.

The project site consists of three parcels located on the north side of Euclid Avenue
between E. 105th Street and Stokes Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio 44106. The concept
design phase help clarify some items regarding the design and scope of the project. The
proposal uses this concept design as a basis of design. CPL intends to hire a construction
manager at risk to procure the construction activities for this new library.

The concept design phase is being implemented to integrate the needs and requirements of
the developer into the design presented with the competition phase.

GPD anticipates the construction costs will not exceed 

Scope of Services
GPD Group proposes to provide the services outlined below:

Task 100 Site Coordination

GPD will review the developer drawings and provide feedback and coordination with
the building design and MEP systems.

library 00? CA Brooms/72025? 06. - l4

1008

CPL MLK Branch Library 2 June 13, 2019

 

Work includes review and coordination of any utility runs between the building and
the library independent heatingxcooiing plant.

Civil engineering to within five?foot of the building, storm water documentation, and
site design will be provided by the developer's AXE team.

GPD assumes the building footprint will be site located by the Developer team.

Task 200 - Landscape Architecture

The survey and proposed civil site plan will be utilized as the information for the
landscape plans along with SD and DD landscape plans developed by others.

Drawings will be sealed by GPD and coordinated with the owner for all permit and
plan review submittals required. Code review and approval from the city shail be
obtained by The documents produced will provide a complete set of
drawings and specifications suitable to bid and award the project. A rendered
landscape plan will not be provided. The owner is responsible for all permit fees
associated with the improvements.

Project improvements will inciude the design for the following:
0 Tree pits and plantings along Euclid Avenue and Reserve Court

0 Hardscape design and layout for adjacent areas and walks based on
the SD and DD documents

The plans will be provided at the CD phase only. Landscape Pians will delineate all
planting zones, treatments, seeded areas, and plant iists. Hardscape plans will
delineate the pavement types, limits, treatment, and patterns. Planting and
hardscape details will be provided.

Building pavement will be coordinated with the building architect and site civil
engineer. ADA site access and grading will be performed by MDP and NEFF.

Technical Specifications will be provided on the drawings that are suitable for
bidding to construct the iandscape.

Task 300 Structural Coordination

0

GPD wiil provide supplemental structural engineering to support building features
including canopies, curtain wail, railings, ceilings and stairs).

Building structure (superstructure) and foundations, including mezzanine, roof,
skylight, and lateral framing, will be provided by the Developer team.

Coordination with the developer team will be provided with the proposal to provide
loading and reactions for the overali building structural design by the Developer?s
AXE.

190-634 06. - L5

1009

CPL MLK Branch Library 3 June 13, 2019

 

Task 400 Mechanical/PIumbing/Fire Protection

Provide design and documentation required for permitting, bidding, and construction
including mechanical, plumbing, and fire protection, as required to accommodate
the approved preliminary plan and identified scope of work for the project.
Documentation is to include:

0





HVAC under?oor system design and layouts

Central cooling and heating plant design and layouts
Mechanical enlarged plans and details

BAS control drawings and sequence of operations

Plumbing design and layouts for natural gas, domestic hot and cold
water, sanitary and storm systems

Plumbing risers and isometrics

Criteria specifications and criteria drawings for fire protection. (Fire
protection system design and hydraulic calculation to be completed
by others).

Roof drainage from canOpies.

Overall utility coordination with Developer?s engineer. (FP service,
Domestic Water, sewer, storm, NG)

Task 410 - Electrical

Provide design and documentation required for permitting, bidding, and construction
including electrical engineering, as required to accommodate the approved
preliminary plan and identi?ed scope of work for the project. Documentation

0

includes:

Coordination with utility company and developers engineer for pad
mount transformer size and location. (Size determined by utility)

Electrical distribution system (480/277v, 3 phase service, 120/208v,
3 phase)

Emergency generator system has been excluded from the proposal.

Power distribution for 120 volt system furniture and office
equipment.

Telecom?security raceways and coordination (Technology and
Security design by others)

Power distribution for lighting system and coordination. Emergency
egress lighting. (2) two design changes are included. (Lighting

MIA/[bray (34 06. 16

1010

CPL MLK Branch Library 4 June 13, 2019

 

and controls designed by others to meet LEED requirements. LEED
lighting credits and documentation by others.)

0 Power distribution for HVAC equipment, plumbing equipment and
controls.

0 Fire alarm system design

0 Overall utility coordination with Developer?s engineer. (Power,
cable, data, fire alarm)

Excludes any site lighting.

a Lighting, design, technology and security will be provided by a separate
consultant.

Task 500 - LEED/Sustainability

GPD will manage and initial LEED workshop to establish the LEED goals and initial
scorecard for the project.

a Work includes preparation of Specifications and specific plans required to submit for
LEED certification.

a It is anticipated the building will be seeking a Silver Certification level using LEED
rating system Version 4 (Interior Design Construction) with the project.

a GPD will address specific questions from the contractor during the construction
phase related to their specific discipline.

GPD anticipates the project will submit both a design and construction submittal.

a USGBC registration, review or credit interpretation ruling fees are not included with
the proposal.

. No fundamental or enhanced commissioning is included with the proposal.

a Proposal assumes developer will provide required information, drawings and
documentation for their scope of work required for Certification.

 

library 00? CA Proposa/VZOIQ 06. .74 - 7

1011

CPL MLK Branch Library 5 June 13, 2019

 

 

QAXQC of GPD drawings is included as part of the various tasks and disciplines
listed.

Task 600 - Permitting

a Research the permitting requirements with the necessary jurisdictions and prepare
all applications and plan review submittal documents. The plan review fee will be
provided by JKurtz Architects.

GPD will stamp and sign the engineering documents in accordance with city and
state requirements and follow up with the municipalities until the permit is received.
The fee assumes addressing one round of comments from the municipality.

Task 700 - Construction Administration

a Address questions and valid substitution requests during bidding and respond to
you with our written responses for consolidated communication to all the bidders.

a Assist in review and analysis of the bids.

Address questions (RFIs) during construction. We assume 150 hours for addressing
RFIs.

a Maintaining an electronic conformance set for any sketches issued during
construction.

a Review shOp drawings, as required.

a Proposal assumes 1 GPD representative at weekiy construction meetings
for 65 weeks of construction.

a Provide a 50% complete site inspection, as coordinated with JKurtz and CPL and the
contractor.

. Provide a finai inspection and punch list report at the completion of the project.

Follow up with the contractor for proper and timely completion of the punch list
items.

9 Provide record drawings based on the contractor provided as?built mark?ups during
construction in PDF and CAD format for your use and reference.

Hoposo//20/Q 06. - 18

1012

CPL MLK Branch Library 6 June 13, 2019

Fee Proposal

GPD proposes to complete the above Scope of Services for the following lump sum fees
plus reimbursable expenses.

Task 100 Site Coordination 3 200
Task 200 Landsca Architecture 3 500
Task 300 - Structural Coordination 40,000
Task 400 MechanicaIXPlumbing/Fire Protection 110,000
Task 410 Electrical 90,000

Task 500 72 500

1'

Task 600 Permitting 7 500
Task 700 Construction Administration 75 000
TOTAL mesa-W

 

The fee breakdown by phase is as follows:

3 

Design Develo ment 90,300

Construction Documents 35 176 400

Bidding 3 15 000

Construction Administration 19 $95,000
- TOTAL 100% 

 

Reimbursable expenses include, but are not limited to, travel expenses such as printing,
mailing, and plan review submittal fees with local municipalities. Reimbursable expenses
will be passed through at actual cost without mark?up. It is anticipated that
reimbursable expenses for the project will not exceed $9,975.

Work will be billed on a basis for the percentage of work completed that month.

 

1013

CPL MLK Branch Library 7 June 13, 2019

 

Proposed Schedule

Schematic design (SD) documents will be provided within two months of the notice
to proceed (NTP).

Design development documents will be submitted within two and half months from
approval of the SD documents.

Construction documents will be submitted for permitting and bidding purposes
within three and half months of approved preliminary floor plan and finalized scope
of work.

Permitting time frame is contingent upon current municipality turnaround times.

Construction administration throughout the construction phase, estimated at 65
weeks.

Exclusions Clarifications

The following items are not anticipated to be needed on this particular project and
therefore are excluded from our fee proposal:

0

9

ALTA Survey.

Geotechnical studies.

Phase I and II environmental testing and remediation. Asbestos testing.
Lighting photometric measurements.

ALTA, title research.

Lot split, lot consolidation, easements.

Traffic studies.

GPD cannot guarantee planning approvals.

Permit fees, applications fees, recording I filing, and review fees will be paid for by
others. 

Architectural?nterior design or documentation other than Specifications.
Renderings.

Planning and zoning, Planning Commission, Architectural Review Board.
Civil engineering, storm water management and documentation.

Green roof.

lelxl?rary (965, I4 - 20

1014

CPL MLK Branch Library 8 June 13, 2019

 

Roof and roof drains will be provided by the developer?s team. GPD will
coordinate roof drain pathways through the building.

in Cost Estimating.

a New utility design.

a Off?site utility extension design.

a Lighting design and photometric plans.
a Irrigation system design.

a Fire protection design will be provided by a licensed fire protection contractor. Fire
pump or fire protection required for the tower is excluded with the proposal.

a Technology, AN and security design.

0 Structural engineering. Proposal includes supplemental structural engineering to
support building features. Building structure and foundations, including mezzanine,
will be provided by the Developer team.

. Kitchen equipment specifications and planning.

a LEED Certification for the residential tower. Proposai assumes the library fit-out
only. USGBC Certification fee(.s) will be paid for by others.

a Additional meetings with the city or owner will be charged on an hourly basis. 

. Client directed changes after the start of CDs may result in additional services to be
performed on an hourly basis.

*9 Additional site visits beyond those proposed, if requested, will be negotiated as an
add-service.

. Testing and inspections, if required during construction, will be the responsibility of
the contractor.

a GPD anticipates to provide a central BIM/Revit model with
Developer?s info) and we will provide a SMEP model(s) for you to link
into the building complex central.

a This proposal is valid for a period of 30 days from the date of correspondence.

In the event that any certifications, affidavits, or any other documents prior to,
during, and after construction become relevant and require the engineer!
architect(s) of record signature and/or stamp, GPD will provide an amendment to
this proposal which will include the new scope and fee. Such documents include, but
are not limited to, commissioning forms, certifications for building departments,
verification of as?built drawings, affidavits of inspections, assignments, pay
application forms, etc.

MZKiri?imy ProposoO'QO/Q 06. - 2]

1015

CPL MLK Branch Library 9 June 13, 2019

GPD can provide any of these services or others at your request. If service adjustments are
requested, we will provide a proposal revision for your review.

Thank you again for the opportunity to provide this proposal. We look forward to hearing
from you and the potential to work together on this project. Please contact me at
216.92?.8692 or via email at inolde?dquroup.com with any questions or comments
regarding our proposal.

Respectfully,

Jason Nolde
Project Manager

Mlzi?z'rl?mry 190434 Hopom/y/ZOXQ 0d 14' - 22

1016

   

June 3, 2019 ?tbll?ili?

ltglulam ?r Eaeh?ulagy

Mr. Jonathan Kurtz, AIA
JKURTZ Architects

Re: Cleveland Public Library, MLK Branch
Lighting and Technology Design Services Proposal Rev2

Dear Mu Kurtz,

It was a pleasure working with the design team on the competition for the Cleveland Public Library MLK
Branch. We look forward to the opportunity to developing further lighting and low voltage system concepts
and seeing the project through to construction. Please review the proposal of services as requested for this new
construction branch.

SCOPE OF WORK
The following areas shall be part of this Scope of Work:

Interior Public and back cfhouse spaces
Exterior Facade, Entry and associated Landscaped areas

SCOPE OF SERVICES

Our fee proposal for this project is based on the following scope, assumptions, and notes:

A. Schematic Design Phase:
1. One (1) Conference with the Owner and Client as required to discuss illumination criteria,
technology system concepts, project cost guidelines and schedule parameters. Coordination i5?: 5?33?: it?;
calls/webex with the Design Team are included as part of base services. 

2. Analysis of lighting requirements for visual tasks to be performed by the occupants of the
various rooms and functional requirements for the lighting systems.

3. Analysis of Technology, Security and AV requirements for each space as set forth by the
program.

4. Submittal of a Basis of Design report outlining the recommended program for lighting,
technology, AV and security, for Owner and Client review and approval.

5. Coordination as required to assist in the preparation of an order?of?magnitude project cost
estimate.

MM?Zri?mxy 00?674 23

1017

Mr. Jonathan Kurtz, AIA

 

June 3, 2019
Page 2 of 6
B. Design Development Phase:
[n this Phase, Tec Studio assumes there will be not more than one (1) formal issuance of lighting
documentation packages.
1 . Participate in conceptual and technical conferences with the Owner and the Client and their Consultants.
2. Perform electric lighting calculations for layout purposes.
3. Prepare preliminary documentation as follows for inclusion into the Project?s Design Development
Phase documentation.
a. Scaled lighting layout plans indicating ?xture types, and locations, scaled technology, security
and AV drawings. The designers will coordinate this work with the Client and their
Consultants. These will be executed on backgrounds provided by the Client.
b. Preliminary details of any special lighting treatments.
c. Preliminary lighting ?xture schedule, catalogue cuts and speci?cations.
d. Preliminary Technology, AV and Security speci?cations, and catalogue cuts.
e. Coordination with the Client and their Consultants to assist in the preparation of a preliminary
project cost estimate.
C. Construction Documents Phase:
In this Phase, Tec Studio assumes there will be not more than two (3) issuances of lightingftechnology
documentation progress packages and one (1) ?nal issue.
1. Review of the Project?s Design Development documentation as related to the lighting and technology
design and provide clari?cations and coordination as required.
2.. Coordination conferences with the Owner and the Client and their Consultants.
3. Preparation of sketches and clari?cations of design intent as required to update the lighting and
technology scope of the design for ?nal documentation.
4. Coordination with Electrical Engineer on emergency lighting to ensure system functions properly,
layout is the responsibility of the Engineer.
5. Preparation of ?nal schedules and ?nal speci?cations for lighting and technology systems.
6. Provide review of Contract Documentation as prepared by The Client and/or their Consultants as it
relates to the lighting and technology design.
7. Preparation of ?nal layout plans. The Designer will coordinate this work with the Client and their
Consultants. These will be executed on backgrounds provided by the Client.
8. Preparation of ?nal details of any special lighting treatments.
9. Preparation of speci?cations for lighting control systems, technology, AV and security. Provide
Sequence of Operations for system design.
10. Coordination with the Client and their Consultants to assist in the preparation of a ?nal project cost
estimate.
D. Bidding and Negotiation Phase:
Evaluation as required of Contractor bids for the lighting equipment.
2. Provide clari?cations of the design intent of the lighting documentation as required by the Client, their

Consultants or the bidding Contractors. All information given to any bidder will be recorded in
writing and forwarded. to the Client for distribution to all bidders.

library ?nposa//?W?i 06. - 24

1018

Mr. Jonathan Kurtz, AIA
June 3, 2019
Page 3 of 6

 

E. Construction Administration Phase:

1. Answer questions and render interpretations of the construction documents and provide
sketches/narrative if modi?cations are required.

2. Submittal review. Our review includes those submittals required by Division 26 section of the
construction documents. The Designer assumes that all submittals will be made in accordance
with the speci?cations (using either the basis of design or one of the two listed equals), and that
no time will be spent reviewing unsolicited substituted products proposed by others. We will
provide one (1) submittal and two (2) re-submittals. (See attachment for basic speci?cation
language that will go into the CD set in regards to substitutions)

3. Provide one site visit to review progress as requested by your Of?ce.

4. Perform one site visit to complete a ?nal punch list and one additional for a back punch after
the completion of construction.

WE REQUIRE

For the purposes of this project, the following information is required to be supplied by your of?ce:

Architectural coordination drawings.

CAD background ?les in Version 2019

Interior elevations and sections, Exterior Elevations and site plans

One (1) set of completed bid documents, drawings, and speci?cations for our
of?ce ?le for each phase.

9-9910?

BASIC SERVICES

The basic services will include the following phases: schematic design, design development, construction
document preparation, and bidding and construction administration.

If our design work is required to result in a construction cost below a predetermined value, in order to
design to this value we must know the amount before we begin working drawings.

The following general items are included in the basic services:

1. Local travel expenses. Note: Between our of?ce and your of?ce, for the purposes of this project,
will be considered local travel.

2. Telephone calls and mail initiated by our of?ce.

3. Computer services for normal engineering calculations and word processing time.

065. - 25

1019

Mr. Jonathan Kurtz, AIA
June 3, 2019
Page 4 of 6

 

4. Minor reproduction of sketches and drawings and other material required for the exchange of
information. Note: The reproduction costs required for bidding purposes are not included in this
proposal.

ADDITIONAL SERVICES
The following general items are not included in the basic services in this fee proposal and, if requested and

mutually agreed upon in writing, will be performed as additional services requiring additional compensation
(see ?Compensation? section).

1. Emergency Egress Illumination.

2. Interactive lighting or interactive media displays

3. Content creation for media displays

4. Special renderings or presentation materials, or scale models of lighting treatments, lighting mock ups.

5. Custom Luminaire Design

6. Preparation and submission of LEED documentation 01' WELL Building.

7. Review of Contractor submittals for equipment substitutions.

8. Coordination of lighting ?xture orders and deliveries from manufacturers.

9. Preparation of daylighting calculations or analysis.

10. Redesign because of scope changes or Value Engineering after the Client?s acceptance of the Designer? 
Construction Document set.

1 1. Preparation of documents for alternate bids or outrof-sequence services requested by the Owner or
Client.

12. Preparation of supporting data and other services in connection with Change Orders or Negotiated
Contracts.

13. Preparation of energy-use calculations and/or other submittals as required for energy code compliance
andf or public utility rebate programs.

14. Site visits to lighting manufacturer?s facilities as required to verify their products? conformance to the
Designer?s speci?cations andlor their ability to perform according to any other project requirements.

15. Travel expenses out of the State to meet with the Design Architect and Engineer of Record.

MIA/[Ibiza 06. - 26

1020

Mr. Jonathan Kurtz, AIA
June 3, 2019
Page 5 of 6

 

COMPENSATION

For the purposes of this project, we propose to work on a phased fix fee basis

The phased fixed fee for work to be performed by the Designer shall be Fifty-Two Thousand Dollars
which does not include any reimbursable expenses, or additional services.

Fee Breakdown

Schematic Design 15% 7,800.00
Design Development 40% $20,800.00
Construction Documents 30% $15,600.00
Bidding and Construction Admin. 15% 7,800.00

Compensation for Additional Services

Additional services will be billed on an hourly basis based on the hourly rates currently in effect as set forth
below. Rates will be maintained during the life of the project unless the project is placed on hold. Any hold
in excess of 12 months, may allow for hourly increase for additional services. The Designer will notify the
Client of the need for additional services prior to commencing work.

Principals: 150.00
Associates: 125.00
Designers/Draftsman: 100.00

Our terms of payment are net thirty (30) days after invoicing. Invoicing for this project will be 
Please advise if special billing formats or reference numbers are required. Our fees and rates are based. on
the timely receipt of payment for our services performed. We reserve the right to renegotiate fees in the
event that the project is suspended and later resumed.

Thank you for the opportunity to present this proposal. If the proposal meets with your approval, please
Sign and return the original proposal, retaining the copy for your ?les. Should. any item in the proposal
require clari?cation, please contact us. We look forward to hearing from you in the near future.

Respectfully submitted,

Tec Studio, Inc.

Ardra Zinkon, CLD, IALD
President, Director of Lighting Design

Min/[1271017 DD-CA Propose/7.2019 06. - 27

1021

at antic

January 21, 2019 a: Enchanting?

 

Mr. Jonathan Kurtz, AIA
JKURTZ Architects

Re: Cleveland Public Library, MLK Branch
Multimedia Interactive Display Consulting Services

Dear Mr. Kurtz, .
Please accept this proposal as an additional service to our lighting and technology design proposal. This scope
of work would include exploratory research for an interactive display within the MLK branch.

SCOPE OF WORK
The following areas shall be part of this Scope of Work:

Interior Pabh?c Spaces as de?ned by the Owner/Architect

SCOPE OF SERVICES

Our fee proposal for this project is based on the following scope, assumptions, and notes:

A. Schematic Design Phase:
1. One (1) Conference with the Owner and Client as required to discuss opportunities for

multimedia interactive display within the new library space. Conference should provide direction
on potential locations for further study and possible concepts.
2. Analysis oflighting and technology requirements for display opportunities, including
requirements for content creation, programming and additional integration team members. - . 
3. Submittal of a Basis of Design report outlining a maximum of ?ve (5) concepts within the library Em?: 
that could be accepted individually or jointly for the project for further development into contract i? 
documents. I I, I
4. Coordination as required to assist in the preparation of an order-of?magnitude cost estimate for
each potential option.
5. Meeting with the Client to review/prep for ?nal presentation and ensure proposed solutions are
consistent with architectural concepts for the project.
6. One (1) Additional meeting with the Owner and Client to present report and. discuss next steps.

MIX Bro/00507205? 06. 14 28

1022

Mr. Jonathan Kurtz, AIA
January 21, 2019
Page 2 of 3

 

BASIC SERVICES

The basic services will include the following phases: schematic design.

If our design work is required to result in a construction cost below a predetermined value, in order to
design to this value we must know the amount before we begin. If we are not advised of this amount before
we are instructed to begin working drawings and it later results in a redesign on our part, then the work shall
be billed as additional services as described elsewhere in this fee proposal.

 

The following general items are included in the basic services:

Local travel expenses. Note: Between our of?ce and your of?ce, for the purposes of this project,
will be considered local travel.

2. Telephone calls and mail initiated by our of?ce.

Computer services for normal engineering calculations and word processing time.

4. Minor reproduction of sketches and drawings and other material required for the exchange of
information. Note: The reproduction costs required for bidding purposes are not included in this
proposal.



ADDITIONAL SERVICES

The following general items are not included in the basic services in this fee proposal and, if requested and
mutually agreed upon in writing, will be performed as additional services requiring additional compensation
(see ?Compensation? section).

1. Design Development and Construction Documents for interactive multimedia display.
2. Content Creation.
3. Programming and Commissioning.

COMPENSATION

For the purposes of this project, we propose to work on a phased ?x fee basis

The phased fixed fee for work to be performed by the Designer shall be Seven Thousand, Five Hundred
Dollars which does not include any reimbursable expenses, or additional services.

Fee Breakdown

Prep and Initial Meeting 10 hours
Research and Development 30 hours
Final Presentation 1.0 hours

Our terms of payment are net thirty (30) days after invoicing. Invoicing for this project will be 
Please advise if special billing formats or reference numbers are required. Our fees and rates are based on

06. - 29

1023

Mr. Jonathan Kurtz, AIA
January 21, 2019
Page 3 of 3

 

the timely receipt of payment for our services performed. We reserve the right to renegotiate fees in the
event that the project is suspended and later resumed.

Thank you for the opportunity to present this proposal. If the proposal meets with your approval, please
sign and return the original proposal, retaining the copy for your ?les. Should any item in the proposal
require clari?cation, please contact us. We look forward to hearing from you in the near future.

Respectfully submitted,

Tee Studio, Inc.


Ardra Zinkon, CLD, IALD
President, Director of Lighting Design

MlKZ??mry 1911 C4 Proposaf/ZGIQ 06. - 3 0

1024

 

NESNADNY ~le 

June 3, 2019

Jonathan Kurtz
Principal
JKU RTZ Architects Via Email

Cleveland Public Library Martin Luther King Jr. Branch
Branding, Signage, and AnisfieId?Wolf Book Awards Exhibition Design

Dear Jonathan,

We are excited about working with JKURTZ, and Cleveland Public Library (CPL) team on the
redesign of the CPL Martin Luther King Jr. Branch, and making it possible for everyone to have Place
at the Table." Thank you again for inviting us to be a part of this significant and vital addition to
Cleveland's vibrant cultural and literary community, and working together to create an iconic living tribute
to Dr. King and the Anisfield?Wolf Book Awards.

As we heard in the many meetings leading up the design competition, we are looking forward to helping
make this library branch a local, regional, and even national destination that elevates the library
experience, and makes visitors rethink what a library is, and can be.

Per our discussion we are dividing our Proposal into 3 sections: Essential Services which are absolutely
needed for a successful opening of the new Library; Optional Services, which while not essential. can
complement our Essential Services; and Enhanced Services which would bring the project to the level of
aspiration the competition included. We are combining most of these services into three Design Packages,
which will include all creative fees associated with the Essential Services, as well as preliminary explorations
and recommendations of the interactive exhibits listed in the Enhanced Services.

ENGAGMENT OVERVIEW

Nesnadny Schwartz is pleased to submit the following specifications and budget in response to an
invitation from JKURTZ I SO-IL to design Identity, Way?finding, and Exhibition Design for the Cleveland
Public Library Martin Luther King Jr. Branch (MLK Library). The specific items addressed in this agreement
are itemized below. In addition to these unique undertakings, it is understood that will also serve as the
MLK Library?s visual design consultant and advise on all projects and matters relating to how the library is
visually represented to internal and external audiences. Projects over and above those described here can
be addressed as they arise as separate budgets, or can work with CPL on a retainer until the library is
complete, and all design matters have been resolved. Our budget is based on the parameters discussed
during all calls, meetings, and our review and familiarity of current designs and plans of the new library.

SCOPE OF PROJECT: ESSENTIAL SERVICES

Identity Design: This project consists of creating an identity theme for the new MLK Library, which may
consist of unique typographical treatments, iconography, patterns, and color which will serve to brand the
look and feel of the library and work harmoniously with the architecture to help elevate the overall visitor
experience. Just as the architecture will serve as a model for the future of CPL, so should the entire visual
scheme. This visual voice will than help guide the design of the Way?finding and Signage System.

Approach: The creative process will include extensive typographical, graphical, and color palette
research, and thorough design studies to ensure the new identity works seamlessly within the context of
the surrounding architecture, and pays respectful homage to the Dr. King legacy.

Wayufinding and Signage Design: Part of a successful MLK Library experience necessitates the design of
clear and easy-to-understand way-finding and signage to help visitors navigate through the library
environment. While operationally imperative, well-designed way-finding also serves to enhance the visual
appeal of the facility, and complement the architecture. will apply the new MLK Library identity to a
family of signs outside and inside the new library. This collection of signs may include: main exterior street-
facing branding signage; secondary exterior branding signage along the rear and sides of the library; exterior

10803 Magnolia Drive I Cleveland, Ohio 44106
I Info@NSldeas.com 216.791.??21

?oposo/YEOIQ 06. - 3i

1025

 

MLK Library: identity, Way-?finding, and Exhibit Design .:
Page 2 ail

 

way-finding and informational signage; main interior branding signage; and all interior way-finding and
informational signage.

Approach: The creative process will include extensive typographical, graphical, color palette, materials,
fabrication, and installation research in order to develop a comprehensive way-?nding signage system
with standardized type styles, composition, and layout formats that may be applied to a variety of signage
types and applications.

Signage types to be explored include library area identifiers Shelter, Playground, Think Room,
Action Area, Reading Garden, Information, etc.). book stack and subject area identifiers Fiction,
Nonfiction, Children. etc), desk labels, meeting room and office identifiers, and floor plan maps.

Signage applications to be explored include wall graphics, floor graphics, banners, free standing signage,
window graphics, illuminated signage, and interactive touch screens.

AnisfietduWotf Book Awards Exhibition Design: As the AnisfieId-Wolf Book Award (AWBA) design firm
of record, is keenly familiar with the history and importance of this venerable institution and makes
us uniquely quali?ed to be involved with creating the award?winning books? new home in the MLK Library.
will work closely with JKURTZ, SO-IL, AWBA, and CPL in conceptualizing and designing the AWBA
exhibit installation, and making the ?Mountaintop,? and ?Forest of Hopes and Dreams? a reality.

Approach: The creative process will include extensive typographical, graphical, color palette, materials,
fabrication, and installation research in order to develop a unique, impactful, and memorable installation
that successfully honors the AWBA winners, gives visitors a fulfilling understanding of the Awards
importance, provides thorough access to all AWBA winning books, represents the iconic mirrored forest
originally envisioned, and adheres to the AWBA brand that has already been established.

SCOPE OF PRQJECT: OPTIQNAL SERVICES

Business Papers, Collateral, and Marketing Materials: As one of the premier branches in the CPL
system, the MLK Library can greatly benefit from a unique family of complelling communication materials
to help promote the location as a important and exciting destination. will apply the new MLK Library
identity to an assortment of Business Papers and Collateral Materials specified by the MLK Library staff.
As those pieces have yet to be identi?ed, is budgeting time for the design of 12?18 unique items.

Approach: The creative process will include extensive typographical, graphical, color palette, materials.
and production research in order to develop a comprehensive communications package with standardized
type styles, composition, and layout formats.

Items that may be explored include business cards. letterhead, envelopes, note cards, pocket folder,
bookmark, t-shirt, hat, etc.

identity Guidelines: will design a straightforward (up to 12 pages), Brand Identity Guideline
document that outlines usage rules for the new MLK Library identity. Some of the items to be addressed
include proper and improper identity usage, size and placement requirements, typographical
specifications, color palette description and color usage, and extended complementary color palette.

Approach: The creative process will include extensive typographical, graphical, color palette, materials,
and production research in order to develop a cohesive and comprehensive set of guidelines that clearly
outlines proper use and application of the new MLK Library identity, allowing for consistent visual
branding by all internal and outside sources.

library 00?04 Hoposa/?2079 06. 32

1026

MLK Library: Identity, Way~finding, and Exhibit Design
Page 3

 

SCOPE OF PROJECT: ENHANCED SERVICES

in addition to the MLK Library Identity and Way-finding Signage, which will reference Martin Luther
King Jr.'s legacy, there are other featured projects exhibits we are proposing that can solidly embed
his presence into the MLK Library experience. It is important to note that any of one of these exhibits
is a prime sponsorship opportunity for local, regional, or even national organizations and
corporations. can work with CPL in helping to broker these opportunities, as many of our clients
are potentiai funders, e.g. the Cleveland Foundation and the George Gund Foundation.

MLK Library Website: is proposing the design of an innovative, toward-looking, responsive
(viewable on all devices) website that would not only serve as an online tool for accessing the collections,
resources, and services currently offered online, but also be an extension of the interactive exhibits in
place at the branch. For example, recordings made in the Dream Room can be accessible on the MLK
Library Website, and conversely recordings made offsite can be uploaded to the library exhibit. Or, a
miniature version of the Freedom Map which pinpoints key Cleveland historical locations can be
accessed through the website. The potential is limitless. With a compelling user interface, intuitive
navigation, contemporary design, and engaging content, the website will serve as a dynamic extension of
the MLK Library, and further reinforce its role as a library of the future.

Approach: will work closely with CPL in determining the website?s content and site map. desired
features and services, needs for a custom content management system (OMS), visual design, and overall
user experience.

Dream Room: On the ?Mountaintop? there will be a unique space where visitors can record what they
envision our community, our city, our country, and our world can be. They will also be able to listen to
archived wishes from previous visitors using a variety of search parameters.

Approach: will work closely with JKURTZ, SO-IL. the team's technical partner, CPL, and potential
project sponsor, in designing the appearance of the space as it relates to the surrounding AWBA
installation, and overall library ambiance. will explore title and instructional signage for the area that
follows the MLK Library system described above, along with additional graphical applications to energize
the space. If a sponsor is funding the exhibit, will work with them in designing a personal identi?er for
the space that is a unique piece of signage, but also follows the newly established MLK Library brand.

Word Waik: will design a unique walkway along the perimeter of ?The Table? where visitors can
walk or roll over a strip of floor that is occupied by thousands of glowing words. As people move the
words interact with their feet or wheels. They can simply enjoy the playful movement they create or spend
more time building sentences or phrases.

Approach: will work closely with JKURTZ, SO-IL, the team?s technical partner, CPL, and potential
project sponsor, in designing the appearance of the space and projected typographical styles as they
relate to the surrounding library and Table look and feel, It a sponsor is funding the exhibit, will work
with them in designing a personal identifier for the space that is a unique piece of signage, but also
follows the newly established MLK Library brand.

Freedom Map: This project consists of creating an interactive map exhibit focusing on Greater Cleveland
and highlighting important locations where significant civil rights milestones and events occurred, from Dr.
King's speech at Olivet Institutional Baptist Church to Karamu House, the oldest African American theater
in the United States. Viewers can touch featured points on the map and pop-up windows will expand to
give further information and visuals relating to the historical event or location. Where appropriate sound or
video may be included. A free app that complements the exhibit can be downloaded at the station and
guide users throughout the city where they can visit the actual locations.

Approach: will work closely with JKURTZ, SO-IL, the team?s technical partner, archivist, historian,
CPL, and potential project sponsor, in designing the appearance of the map and accompanying graphics
including map design and interactive functionality, sound research and design, video research and
design. photo research and design, and all expandable written content and design. will explore title
and instructional signage for the area that follows the MLK Library system described above, along with
additional graphical applications to energize the space. If a sponsor is funding the exhibit, will work
with them in designing a personal identifier for the space that is a unique piece of signage, but also
follows the newly established MLK Library brand.

MZri?Zrierry 190434 00?. - 33

1027

 

MLK Library: Identity, Way-finding, and Exhibit Design
Page 4

 

Living Wall: will create an interactive wall that may be programmed with words from Dr. King's
writings and speeches. Words like ?character,? "faith,? "hope,? and ?love." Viewers can touch one of
the words and the entire quotation appears, with the date and location of when and where the words
were spoken. They can touch another portion of the wall and use more words to create their own verses
and poems.

Approach: will work closely with JKURTZ, SO-IL, the team's technical partner, archivist, historian,
CPL, and potential project sponsor, in designing the appearance of the wall and projected typographical
styles as they relate to the surrounding library and Table look and feel, along with additional graphical
applications to energize the space. If a sponsor is funding the exhibit, will work with them in
designing a personal identifier for the space that is a unique piece of signage, but also follows the newly
established MLK Library brand.

Virtual Garden: Reinforcing the notion of a library being the source of personal and communal growth,
will design an interactive garden that will change with the seasons, and visitors you can interact with
it by planting virtual seeds and virtually watering them. They may then return at a later date, "walk
through? the garden using a virtual map, locate their plants, and see how they?ve grown and bloomed.

Approach: will work closely with JKURTZ, the team?s technical partner, CPL, and potential
project sponsor, in designing the appearance of the garden, along with additional graphical applications to
energize the space. If a sponsor is funding the exhibit, will work with them in designing a personal
identifier for the space that is a unique piece of signage, but also follows the newly established MLK
Library brand.

Community Portrait: Supporting the idea that the MLK Library and its thematic Table can conceptually
and literally bring people together, this project consists of creating a large back?lit monitor displaying a
grid of portraits. These will be photos of library visitors people of all ages, races, from all different walks
of life from all over the world. Integrated within the installation will be a camera new visitors can stand in
front of and let themselves be photographed. Their image then becomes part of the Community Portrait
for others to see.

Approach: will work closely with JKURTZ, the team's technical partner, CPL, and potential
project sponsor, in designing the appearance of the exhibit, along with additional graphical applications to
energize the space. If a sponsor is funding the exhibit, will work with them in designing a personal
identifier for the space that is a unique piece of signage, but also follows the newly established MLK
Library brand.

Talking Books: One of the charges to our team is the challenge of making parts of the library accessible
24 hours a day, 7 days a week. envisions the design of a virtual library on the facade of the MLK
Library in the form of a projected case of books that visitors can touch, and passages of the books will be
read to them.

Approach: will work closely with JKURTZ, SO-IL, the team's technical partner, CPL, and potential
project sponsor, in designing the appearance of the exhibit, along with additional graphical applications to
energize the surrounding area, including book spine design and interactive functionality, and sound
research and design. If a sponsor is funding the exhibit, will work with them in designing a personal
identifier for the space that is a unique piece of signage, but also follows the newly established MLK
Library brand.

Min'ri?mry 00-634 Propose/720.79 06.14 - 34

1028

MLK Library: identity, Way~finding, and Exhibit Design
Page 5

 

Road to Hope: Continuing to meet the challenge of making the MLK Library a unique destination 24
hours a day, 7 days a week, would create a projected word experience as visitors walk beneath the
buildings cantilevered canopy that projects over the front sidewalk. As visitors look up they see the words
of Martin Luther King Jr. in large glowing excerpts from his many famous speeches and quotations. Using
projected sound, visitors actually hear Dr. King reciting the words as they travel down the street.

Approach: will work closely with JKURTZ, the team's technical partner, archivist, historian,
CPL, and potential project sponsor, in designing the appearance of the canopy and projected
typographical styles as they relate to the surrounding library and Table look and feel, along with additional
graphical applications to energize the space. if a sponsor is funding the exhibit, will work with them
in designing a personal identifier for the area that is a unique piece of signage, but also follows the newly
established MLK Library brand.

Freedom Stride: One more compelling way the library can be accessible 24!? is by designing an
interactive exhibit on the facade of the library where as visitors walk along the front of the building toward
the entrance, they notice an image of Dr. King walking beside them. Using video tracking and archival
video, the experience would emulate the experience of marching with Dr. King on one of his many
historical peaceful protests.

Approach: will work closely with JKURTZ, SO-IL, the team?s technical partner. archivist, historian,
CPL, and potential project sponsor, in designing the appearance of the projected walk, along with
additional graphical applications to energize the space. If a sponsor is funding the exhibit, will work
with them in designing a personal identifier for the area that is a unique piece of signage, but also follows
the newly established MLK Library brand.

FOUR STEP DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT PROCESS
Our development methodology for these projects will follow a four Phase process including:

1. Discovery Strategy 3. Typesetting Electronic Production
2. Concept Design 4. Production Management

These Phases will be followed during this collaborative engagement to provide a system for informed dia?
logue, clear feedback, and well-defined scheduling milestones and budgetary parameters. It is through
this efficient process for creative and production development that we can ensure the ultimate success of
these projects. It is understood that will provide professional and creative services for these projects
and work closely with the MLK Library team to establish, review, and implement the direction and design
for these undertakings. This includes time for research, meetings, presentations, conceptual development,
original design concepts, graphic design, typesetting, and production of all digital files as required.

Discovery 4- Strategy: We pride ourselves on ?doing our homework.? Great design is responsive to the
needs of our clients, and our clients? end-users. The first step in this process will be to establish and confirm
the overall strategy and objectives for all components of these projects. Central to this process will be an
evaluation of previous project versions (if relevant). This Phase would also include a review of any relevant
additional content and visual assets and discussions with CPL and MLK staff regarding the constraints and
goals of the efforts. Regular communication between and the MLK Library team will continue
throughout the discovery, creative, and production processes.

2. Concept Design: Once we have completed Phase 1, Discovery Strategy, will proceed with
the Concept Design step. As these projects are multi?faceted, incremental, and subject to coinciding
with building design and construction deadlines, each project must be completed in a defined order for
the entire effort to progress ef?ciently and effectively. We see these efforts being completed in the
following order: Identity Design; Way-finding Design; Anisfield-Wolf Book Awards Exhibition Design; all
Enhanced Services Exhibits; followed by Business Papers, Collateral, and Marketing Materials and Brand
Identity Guidelines.

MIKZr?mry 90-04 (deposed/307930614 - 35

1029

MILK Library: Identity, Way-finding, and Exhibit Design 
Page 6 3

 

Identity Design: will create and present up to 2 identity themes with up to 2 sets of refinements.
Once a final design direction has been approved, will advance to exploring how the identity theme
can work throughout the library exterior and interior environments.

Way-finding and Signage Design: Once a final identity theme has been approved, will begin
exploring way-finding and signage design. Once initial research has been completed for specific signage
needs and applications, and the types of signs and content of each has been approved by the MLK
Library team, will begin designing a select family of up to 6 sign compositions that represent the
types of signage that will appear throughout the Library, including individual composition, material,
structure, and location. Design approaches shall be presented in digital environments emulating each
sign's size, structure, and placement. will present up to 2 design themes with up to 2 rounds of
design refinements. Once a theme direction has been approved will apply the look and feel to the
remaining sign types.

Anisfield-Wolf Book Awards Exhibition Design: will work in tandem with JKURTZ, SO-IL, AWBA,
and CPL to design the overall look, structure, and interactive elements of the AWBA exhibit, ensuring that
the finished appearance adheres to the established AWBA brand, while having its own unique and
inspired visual voice. JKURTZ, and will work together to coordinate schedule, presentations,
and refinements. We are budgeted to create up to 2 design directions, with up to 2 rounds of revisions.

Enhanced Services Exhibits: Depending on the selected exhibits, will work closely with JKURTZ,
SO-IL, technical partners, archivists, historians, CPL, all fabricators, builders, and any potential project
sponsors, on the design and production of these exciting opportunities. In each case will present 1
design approach with up to 2 rounds of design refinements.

Business Papers, Collateral, and Marketing Materials: will design between 12-18 unique
business papers or collateral and marketing materials, which may include business cards. letterhead,
envelopes, note cards, pocket folder, bookmark, t-shirt, hat etc. After CPL and have agreed on this
assortment of items, will begin the design process which will include extensive typographical,
graphical, color palette, materials, and production research in order to develop a comprehensive
communications package with standardized type styles, composition, and layout formats. will
present 2?3 designs for each item in the form of high-resolution color presentation pages, with 2?3 sets of
design re?nements. Once each design has been approved, will proceed to the Typesetting 
Electronic Production phase to create print?ready files of each item.

identity Guidelines: Once all preliminary projects have been designed and approved, and all design
applications and rules have been addressed, can proceed with developing a clear and accessible
set of Brand identity Guidelines. This document will be up to 12 pages long in PDF form, and address
proper and improper logo usage, minimal size requirements, typographical specifications, color palette
description and color usage, and extended complementary color palette.

3. Typesetting Electronic Production: will provide all required and relevant Typesetting and
related Electronic Production services. This includes all time for the initial setting of all type, up to 3
rounds of type changes, and preparation of all ?printer?ready? files, as required.

4. Production Management: Preliminary cost estimates for Production Management andlor the time that
may be required to manage or supervise these services, are included in this Proposal. In addition to
playing an active role in the proof review process, we assume that will play an active role in the
supervision of all printing, binding, fabrication, and installation of all projects including scheduling and all
vendor communication, and RFQ requests as needed. We are not including a printing, fabrication, and
installation costs at this time until final designs, material specifications, and installation parameters have
been determined.

Miri?irlvro'ry 490- CA 06.74 - 36

1030

MLK Library: Identity, Way-finding, and Exhibit Design
Page 7

 

ESTIMATE AND RELATED TERMS

This Proposal and related budget (i10%) include costs for professional services and expenses as outlined. This
encompasses a preliminary allowance for design related materials, of?ce supplies, long distance phone, and related
expenses. We believe the budget estimates for consultation, research, and design to be adequate. Additional work
beyond this estimated time may result in additional costs. In the event that these estimates appear to be insufficient,
will consult with JKURTZ, SO-IL, and CPL before any additional costs are incurred. Except as specifically noted,
this Proposal and related budget do not include printing, fabrication, installation, deliveries, or extensive changes.
These costs (if any) will be invoiced directly to the client based on approved budgets. would like to receive 75
sample copies of printed materials that are produced. Additionally, we respectfully request that (subject to mutual
agreement and aesthetic considerations) a credit appear at the end of the publications. The credit should read
"Design: Nesnadny Schwartz."

MLK Library Identity Way?finding and Signage Design Package

will work with the MLK Library team insupplying the above creative services itemized in the Essential Services
section for the MLK Library Identity and Way-finding and Signage System, which includes all Consultation, Research,
Design, Art Direction, Typesetting, Electronic Assembly, Production, Production Management, and Fabrication and
installation Supervision. Final deliverables include the MLK Library Identity and Way?finding and Signage System. All
design and typographical specifications relating to the new MLK Library identity, Way-finding, and Signage will be the
property of CPL and may be applied to additional CPL branches as a system?wide program.

While costs pertaining to all internal expenses relating to these projects our included in our Proposal, our budget does
not include costs for new photography, illustration, signage and exhibit materials, fabrication, construction, and
installation. When final designs have been approved for these projects, updated Production Budgets can be
assembled for approval by CPL.

Total Creative Services: $64,500

Anisfield-Wolf Book Awards Exhibit Design Package

will work with the MLK Library team in supplying the above creative services itemized in the Essential Services
section for the AnisfieId-Wolf Book Awards Exhibit, which includes all Consultation, Research, Design, Art Direction,
Typesetting, Electronic Assembly, Production, Production Management, and Fabrication and Installation Supervision.
Final deliverables include the AnnisfieId?Wolf Book Awards Exhibit Design.

While costs pertaining to all internal expenses relating to these projects our included in our Proposal, our budget does not
include costs for new photography, illustration, exhibit materials, fabrication, construction, and installation. When final
designs have been approved for these projects, updated Production Budgets can be assembled for approval by CPL.
Total Creative Services: $44,500

Interactive Exhibit Exploration and Research

Included in this phase is the time required (up to 50 hours) for the exploration of interactive exhibit technology,
solutions, and installation! location ideas for the projects listed above in the Enhanced Services section (not including
the MLK Library Website). will present the MLK Library team with interactive exhibit ideas for review and
discussion. Upon approval of 3-5 conceptual directions, will be available to work with the MLK Library team in
assembling complete Design, Production, Construction, and Installation Budgets for the completion of these exhibits.

Total Research Services: $10,175

MLK Library Business Papers, Collaterai, Marketing Materials, and identity Guideilnes Design Package

will work with the MLK Library team in supplying the above creative services itemized in the Optional Services
section, which includes all Consultation, Research, Design, Art Direction, Typesetting, Electronic Assembly,
Production, Production Management, and Printing Supervision. Final deliverables include 12?18 unique business
papers or collateral and marketing materials. as well as a 12 page digital identity Guidelines document. Our budget
does not include costs for printing, new photography, or illustration.

Total Creative Services: $26,750

MLK Library Website Design and Development

Total Creative Services: To be Determined Once the Site Size and Features Has Been Agreed Upon

 

Hourly Rates Rate Per Hour
Principals (Creative Director and Design Director) $185
Design and Production Staff $165

All of us here at Nesnadny Schwartz are looking forward to partnering with you and the MLK Library team. Please
don't hesitate to contact me if you have any questions. Thanks again for this exciting opportunity.

Sincerely,

..

Greg 968?? D'recmr Merriam pact Proposo//20/Q 0.5M 37

1031



threshold

11 February 2018

Jonathan Kurtz
JKUHTZ Architects

10803 Magnolia Drive
Cleveland, OH 44106
Phone: (330] 328-734?

Acoustics Consulting Proposal
Cleveland Public Library, Martin Luther King Jr. Branch

Dear Jonathan:

We are excited to have the opportunity to collaborate again, especially on a building of such civic importance. The core principals
driving the project of w'swa/ concessions m'fferenrraz?e, whisper? oft/2e who/e; and shared nor separated all speak to an
importance of carefully balancing the interior acoustic environment of each program area so that it supports the nature of the
activity inside, giving it identity, and allowing the activity to spill into the adjacent areas to speak to the connections and express
a level of vibrancy, all without allowing for disruption of one area by another.

The variety of spaces demand a level of intentional acoustic differentiation. The teen and children's spaces clearly need to allow
for a level of boisterousness that may or may not be appropriate to the mood of the temporary exhibit, which may call for a
degree of variability in privacy, acoustic control, and ambiance depending on its nature. The expression of the volumes using
stairs and curtain wall shaping may itself allow for developing a level of functional independence acoustically, even while the
sightlines among these spaces may remain uninterrupted.

The opening through the mezzanine over the performance space offers an exciting opportunity to draw attention to activity in the
central zone when desired and may require Special attention to keep daily activity from unintentionally disrupting the quieter
activity on the mezzanine. We look forward to exploring the options for aligning the acoustic behavior with the program goals for
the facility in its entirety.

In order to efficiently provide the input required, we are proposing more intensive involvement early in the project, with lighter
overview input later in design, remaining on call for questions when design direction pulls you away from principles established
in the early phases. We have made the following adjustments to our typical scope of services to provide our services in a cost-
effective manner:

0 We will depend on the design team to alert us to issues requiring our attention after our mid-Design Development (DD)
review. In our typical approach, we provide detailed document reviews throughout the project.

0 Extensive model testing or auralization services utilized to confirm or compare alternative design approaches with an
understanding of the acoustic impact have been excluded. These tools can be made available as additional services if
design directions appear especially challenging acoustically, or if concerns are raised by the library representatives that
require a more experiential level of interaction to arrive at a level of confidence in the design.

. One meeting per phase is included in design, with no more than three trips in Construction Administrationf
Commissioning.

141 Westdackson Boulevard 312.386.1400
Suite 2080 312.388.1414
THRESHOLD ACOUSTICS Chicago, Illinois 80504 

I rbfar pg). CA Pf0p030//20f9 0614' 3 8

1032

?x

threshold/

A construction kick-off, typically provided at the start of critical acoustically-related trades (MEP, drywall, etc.) to
anticipate questions that frequently come into play, is not included, and may not be necessary.

An outline of our approach is offered on the following pages.

Scope of Services

Schematic Desrge -- less than 3-month defence

I

Visit the existing MLK branch or other sites selected by the library that illustrate spaces that work well or that perform
badly to gain a level of first-hand experience regarding the acoustic goals for the new spaces within the reboot project.

Visit the site for the project to assess the nature of the environmental noise present to inform design of the building
facade. Take measurements of typical outdoor noise at the site.

Participate in a design session with members of the design team, potentially including the architects, Mechanical,
Electrical and Plumbing (MEP) engineers, structural?engineers, and curtain wall consultants (if anvi, all at the architects?
discretion.

Establish volumetric and adjacency requirements consistent with acoustic objectives and provide conceptual
recommendations regarding isolation strategies in key programmatic areas

Develop an acoustic design report including narrative description of the acoustic criteria, and provide drawing markups
indicating desired performance of sound isolating construction, background noise requirements, and preliminary
selection of interior treatment performance requirements for walls, floors, and ceilings.

Coordinate acoustic treatments and sound isolation approaches with the AudioNideo systems design provided by
others.

One multi-day trip to Cleveland is anticipated in this phase.

Design De vefepmem? -- Three meet/rs er fess defence

Review a single progress set of documents and/or building model to verify consistency with the Schematic Design
recommendations for room acoustic, sound isolation, and noise control performance.

Attend one meeting during this phase to advance any portion of the work that remains with coordination of acoustic
design outstanding.

Provide preliminary specification language (either partial or complete sections as required) for acoustic?specific
products and construction techniques.

Construction Documents -- Four months or iess in defence

0

Review a Single progress set of documents and/or building model to verify consistency with the Design Development
recommendations for room acoustic, sound isolation, and noise control performance.

Attend one meeting during this phase to advance any portion of the work that remains with coordination of acoustic
design outstanding.

Provide final specification language for acoustic~specific products and construction techniques.

Cleveland Public Library, MLK Jr. Branch
11 February 2019

Page 2

Mlvt?irl?mry Pmpesa/yf?lg 06. - 39

1033

threshold

Construction rim

Conduct on~site observations of the in-progress construction related to acoustics performance and meet with the
Design Team and Contractors on site to review any construction issues that require coordination. Issue a Field Report
for each site visit. A total of 3 site visits are anticipated in this phase of work.

. Review submittals and concerning acoustically relevant building components.

Fees

Our fee for the proposed scope of work will be $40,000. Customary reimbursable expenses will be billed in addition to the fee at
cost.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PHASE FEE

Schematic Design $15,333

Design Development $10,000

Construction Documents $8,000

Construction AdministrationfCommissioning $7,000

TSTAL 
Addr'z?rbna/ Sen/r1395

Services beyond those identified in the Scope of Services may be added for additional fee at the following hourly rates:

Partners $250.
Principal Consultants $200.
Senior Consultants $175.
Consultants $125150.
Technical Staff $100125.

Cleveland Public Library, MLK Jr. Branch
11 February 2019
Page 3

00434 Pmposa//20f$? 0:514! - 40

1034

  

14 
une 2019 SIMPSON GUMPERTZ a. HEGER -

Engineering of Structures
and Building Enclosures
Mr. Jonathan Kurtz
JKURTZ Architects
10803 Magnolia Drive
Cleveland, OH 44106

Re: Facade Design Phase Consulting Services, Cleveland Public Library, Martin Luther King Jr.
Branch, Cleveland, OH

Dear Mr. Kurtz:

Simpson Gumpertz Heger lnc. (SGH) shall be pleased to provide building enclosure consulting
services for the above-named project. This letter presents our proposed scope of work.

1. PROJECT UNDERSTANDING

Our understanding of the project is based upon the design update presentation dated 28 May 2019
and our 29 May 2019 phone call with you. The Martin Luther King Jr. Branch of the Cleveland Public
Library is a planned two-story public space in Cleveland, Ohio. We understand that will be the
design architect and JKURTZ Architects (JKU RTZ) will be the Architect?of?Record for this project.

You asked us to provide facade consulting for the project. This proposal described our scope for the
ground-floor library space only, and does not include any consulting services for the residential spaces
above.

2. BASIC SERVICES

The of services we can provide for enclosure consulting is broad and variable. We present
below, for your consideration, a scope of consulting services based on our understanding of your
needs and the general building configuration shown on the preliminary drawings that you provided.
We would be glad to reduce, expand, or otherwise modify this scope to meet your needs more closely,
should you so desire.

We expect our review will address the following building envelope systems:

- Opaque wall assemblies.

. Facade waterproofing.

. Fenestration (windows, doors, curtain walls, storefronts, and skylights).
- Exterior canopies.

- Tie?ins and transitions between the systems described above.

Our work will include the services described below:

. Evaluation of the general design of the fenestration, wall cladding, and facade systems,
including comments on the proposed design and recommendations for alternate approaches.

GUMPERTI at HEGER INC.
559 Seventh Avenue. 10m Floor. New York. NY 10018 morn: 2l2.27l .7900 m:212.27l.0? ll 

190- 04 Proposal/20.75? 0614 - 4i

1035

Mr. Jonathan Kurtz 2 - 14 June 2019
0 Recommendations for fenestration and cladding systems, including manufacturers.
. Assist in the design of the proposed fenestration systems including:
Sizing of primary cladding and framing members, as well as typical glazing panels
for both strength and serviceability.
. Assist in developing details to meet the architectural intent, considering ease of
construction and cost effectiveness, as appropriate.
. Evaluate potential sources for elements such as large-format glass panels.
- Coordination with other consultants, including:
. Project Structural Engineer on enclosure interfaces as well as structural support and
movements.
. Project Mechanical Engineer on the design environmental conditions as well as the

required thermal performance for the building enclosure.

Assess and study the thermal performance for typical conditions for the fenestration systems
for use in energy modeling and condensation analysis.

. Review of the architectural drawings and specifications for the building enclosure systems
listed above.

We propose to perform the specific tasks listed below. We will perform our work in a consulting role to
SO-IL and JKURTZ, who will remain Architects-of-Record for the project and maintain full discretion
overall design decisions.

2.1 Design Phase
Design Development (DD) Phase
Our scope of work during the DD phase will include the following tasks:

. Attend one project kick-off meeting at New York City office and conference JKURTZ
to discuss your goals and design intent for the project.

. Write a letter to you that provides our general conceptual recommendations for the building
enclosure systems listed above, including fenestration, thermal insulation, opaque wall
assemblies and facade waterproofing. Our recommendations will include materials,
products, and manufacturer options for these systems.

. Perform preliminary calculations of the framing and glass sizing requirements for the
fenestration systems. We anticipate that one curtain wall system will be part of this project.

. Perform one review of and architectural drawings and specifications for the
building enclosure systems listed above. Our review will include ?redline? comments showing
our recommendations for modifications to the details and specifications for improved
waterproofing and thermal performance, including integration between the different building
enclosure systems. We also will provide hand sketches of details that we recommend 
and JKURTZ include in your drawing set. Our comments on the specifications also will

MEX library D?wC-?i Proposa?f?f? 06. - 42

1036

Mr. Jonathan Kurtz 3 - 14 June 2019

include our recommendations for the required mockup and laboratory and field performance
verification testing requirements for the different building enclosure systems.

0 Perform initial two?dimensional steady-state thermal analysis of the fenestration system to
review the thermal performance. We have included up to four models in our scope of work
for the DD phase. We will provide initial thermal and solar performance data for the
fenestration systems to the Mechanical Engineer (or other party) for use in its work.

. Attend two half?day working meetings with SO-IL at its New York City office and conference
JKU RTZ to discuss our recommendations for the building enclosure systems and the
development of its design.

0 Provide additional ?ad-hoc? consulting services for the building enclosure systems listed
above, including telephone calls, meetings, memoranda, etc. We include up to 20 combined
staff hours for this task during the DD phase.

Construction Documents (CD) Phase
Our scope of work during the CD phase will include the following tasks:

. Provide final framing and glass sizing requirements for the fenestration systems for inclusion
with your project documents.

- Revise our previous thermal models from the DD phase to correspond to the development
of the fenestration?s design. We will provide refined thermal and solar performance data for
the fenestration systems to the Mechanical Engineer (or other party) for use in its work.

. Perform one review of SO-IL and JKU architectural drawings and Specifications for the
building enclosure systems listed above. We will review the drawings for inclusion of our
previous review comments and review new details added to the drawings. We also will
provide hand sketches of details that we recommend and JKURTZ include in the
drawing set.

0 Attend two half?day working meetings with SO-IL at its New York City office and conference
JKURTZ to discuss our recommendations for the building enclosure systems and the
development of its design.

0 Provide additional ad-hoc consulting services for the building enclosure systems listed
above, including telephone calls. meetings. memoranda, etc. We include up to 20 combined
staff hours for this task during the CD phase.

3. ADDITIONAL SERVICES

At your request, we would be happy to provide a proposal to you for the following consulting services
as an additional service:

. Bid? and construction-phase services, including submittal review, site visits, etc.
0 Whole building energy modeling.
. Daylight analysis.

Mia??lrl?raryDD?CA Proposa//20/QO&M - 43

1037

Mr. Jonathan Kurtz - 4 - 14 June 2019

0 Full building enclosure specifications (Divisions 7 and 8. in lieu of reviewing specifications
produced by your office).

0 Full service structural engineering.

. Fire and life safety consulting.

At your request, we can prepare separate cost estimates for these services.

4. FEE AND BUDGET

Our lump-sum fee for the basic services described in Section 2 for this project will be $42,000 including

expenses (which we estimate to be $500). A breakdown of this fee (itemized by phase) is presented
below:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Phase Fee
DD Phase $24,000
CD Phase $18,000
Total $42,000

 

Our fees for additional services will be computed on an hourly basis as shown on the attached Fee
Schedule and Payment Terms. SGH will bill direct expenses at actual cost. Direct expenses are out-
of?pocket expenses and include, but are not limited to, subconsultants, travel, outside services,
copying, and charges for the use of SGH field and laboratory equipment and specialized computer
software.

This proposal is valid for sixty days. Our proposed agreement consists of this proposal and the
enclosed Contract Provisions and Fee Schedule and Payment Terms. If acceptable, please sign and
return one copy of this letter, together with a retainer of $5,000. We will credit this amount to your
account, to be applied against our ?nal billing, and will return any unexpended balance to you at that
time.

Sincerely yours,
SIMPSON GUMPERTZ HEGER INC.

Wm 6M 

a? air M. O'Brien, P.E.
Senior Principal
OH License No. PE.74991

Accepted: JKU RTZ ARCHITECTS Sig nature:

 

Printed Name:
Title:
Date:

 

 

 

CP-2
Encls.

1929-04 Propose/720479. 06.?4? - 44

1038

SIMPSON GUMPERTZ 8: HEGER INC.
FEE SCHEDULE AND PAYMENT TERMS

 

Personnel Categorv Hourly Billing Rate
Senior Principal $340
Principal $320
Associate Principal $300
Staff Consultant $250 $300
Senior Project Manager $255 $295
Senior Project Supervisor $215 $260
Senior Staff $205 - $230
Senior Staff $165 $195
Staff lV $220 $230
Staff $190
Staff $145 $155
Staff $135
Technical Aide $80
Senior Laboratory Technician $125 $155
Laboratory Technician $115
Senior Graphics Specialist $235
Graphics Specialist II $165
Graphics Specialist $120
Senior Project Drafter $165
Senior Drafter $140
Drafter $110
Non-Technical $100 $115

 

 

Rates are in US dollars. Individuals performing services are billed at the applicable rate(s) stated above. Where
ranges of hourly rates are shown for a single title they reflect the varying rates of the particular individuals with that
title. SGH will provide specific hourly rates for individuals assigned to the project if requested. An annual rate
adjustment, based upon salary increases, will apply on 1 January each year. 

 

Invoices will be submitted showing labor (hours worked) by labor category and total expenses.

 

FORM 0101019 01 January 2019

01104 ?avored/2019 06.274 - 45

1039

1301 St, #2100 and~estimolec0m
Cleveland, OH 44114 216.619.1700

   

em

PCS co'hmpony:
June 5, 2019

Mr. Jonathan Kurtz
JKURTZ Architects
10803 Magnolia Drive
Cleveland, OH 44106

RE: Service and Fee Proposal; Estimating
New MLK Library Branch
Cleveland, Ohio

Dear Jonathan:
PCS Estimate, LLC is pleased to offer our proposal to provide cost estimating services for the

referenced project. We understand the project to be a new MLK Library branch to be located within
a proposed residential mixed-use developer driven project located in Cleveland, Ohio.

Our proposal to provide one (1) Estimate of Probable Construction Cost for all trades work with one
(1) minor revision after JKU RTZ Architects? review. is as follows:

Design Development Estimate 10,685
Design Development Reconciliation 3,095
Construction Documents Estimate 13,710
Construction Documents Reconciliation 3,095
Total 30,585
Reimbursables 950

We specifically exclude any printing, meetings, site visits, value engineeringlcost studies,
reconciliation meetings, alternateloptional work scope or subsequent estimating efforts or revisions
beyond those noted above. We have assumed JKURTZ Architects will provide one hard COpy ?le for
our use in this estimating effort,

These estimates will be completed using our standard Microsoft Excel format and delivery to
JKURTZ Architects in electronic PDF format. We exclude any hazardous material estimating as our
insurance company will not allow for this service.

JKURTZ Architects will provide one (1) complete copy of the electronic format (PDF) for our use in

estimating this project. It is understood that our proposal is based on receipt of the documents during
the 2019 calendar year.

09-er Proposof/E'OXQ 06.74? - 46

1040

 

esti pi 

a PCS company

 

As standard in our industry, &estimate expects prompt payment within seven (7) days from the date
you receive our invoice. Any payments exceeding 120 days will be subject to a 5% interest charge. If
the project costs and or the construction cost is increased throughout the duration of our
engagement &estimate will be entitled to an appropriate fee increase in relation to the percentage of
additional funding.

Our estimate will be based on the drawings, specifications, narratives, emails and verbal instructions
provided by JKURTZ Architects. Since we have no control over the cost of labor, materials,
contractor markups, or market conditions, our opinions represent our bestjudgment of a probable
construction cost in Cleveland, Ohio at this time. However, we cannot and do not guarantee that
bids will not vary from our opinions of probable construction costs. If a formal contract is forthcoming,
then this proposal must be attached.

if this proposal meets with your approval, your signature below or authorization to proceed will serve
as a contract between JKURTZ Architects and PCS Estimate, LLC. if a contract is to be signed,
this proposal shall be attached to any contract between JKURTZ Architects and PCS Estimate,
LLC. It will also serve as our authorization to proceed when complete documents are available.
&estimate can complete this estimate as required in seven (7) to ten (10) business days after receipt
of all documents. We have not included estimating services of any soft costs such as fees,
and other normal soft costs adders.

Many thanks for your continued interest in our services. We look fonrvard to working with you and
your team on this very important project.

Respectfully,

PCS 8: Estimate, LLC

 

Brandon Lawlor
President, &estimate
216.239.5276

0 216.406.7151
and?estimate.com

a PCS company

APPROVED: DATE:
JKURTZ Architects

library 190* C4 ?vposo/y?ZOXQ 06.174 47

1041

Appendix 
DESIGN STATUS AT COMMENCEMENT

Wilf?brwy 00434 06. - 48

IREPORJUL

CLEVELAND PUBLIC LIBRARY
FINANCIAL STATEMENT OF FISCAL OFFICER T0 BOARD OF LIBRARY TRUSTEES
FOR THE PERIOD MAY 1 MAY 31, 2019

 

FISCAL OFFICER, BOARD OF LIBRARY TRUSTEES

 

1042

Cleveland Public Library
Revenues, Expenditures and Changes in Fund Balance
For the Period Ending May 31, 2019

41 Taxes

42 Intergovernmental

43 Fines 8 Fees

44 investment Earnings

45 Charges for Services

46 Contributions Donations
48 Miscellaneous Revenue

Total Revenues

5'1 SalarieslBene?ts

52 Supplies

53 Services
54 Library Materials

55 Capital Outlay

57 Miscellaneous Expenses

Total Expenditures
Revenue Overl(Under) Expenditures

91 Sale of Capital Assets
98 Advances
99 Transfers

Total Other Sources I Uses
Revenue 8: Other Sources Overl(Under)
Expenditures 8. Other Uses

Beginning Year Cash Balance

Current Cash Balance

General Fund

Special Revenue

Capital Projects

Permanent

Agency

Total

 

20,208,251.23
10,822,458.94
139,558.74
232,533.93
0.00
35,085.00
117,459.20

0.00
559,375.50
0.00
77,297.27
3,099,842.92
474,287.94
0.00

0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00

0.00
0.00
0.00
9,880.73
0.00
0.00
0.00

0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
40,401.69

20,208,251.23
11 ,291 ?43.54
139,558.74
319,891.93
3,099,842.92
509,352.94
157,880.89

 

$1,355,455.04

15,590,259.88
302,758.15
5,098,288.99
3,789,892.57
514,078-89
50,525.51

4,320,784.73

1,398,988.78
35,481.53
1,758,409.50
315,345.11
39,721.55
12,058.08

0.00

0.00

0.00
240,175.18
0.00
1,884,958.15
0.00

9,860.73

0.00
1,096.58
28,858.12
16,469.37
5,538.55
0.00

40,401.69

0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
38,881.04

5 35,726,502.1 9

18,987,228.48
339,314.25
7,119,709.79
4,101,707.05
2,424,297.14
101 ,484.83

 

25,323,779.79
6,031,675.25

0.00
180,015.00
0.00

3,555,964.55
764,820.18

0.00
(130,015.00)
0.00

2,105,133.33


0.00
0.00
0.00

49,962.62
$010,101.89)

0.00
0.00
0.00

38,881.04
1,520.65

0.00
0.00
0.00

31,073,721.33
4,652,780.86

0.00
0.00
0.00

 

5 180,015.00
5 6,211,690.25

22,691,431.19



584,805.18

19,102,200.53
19,587,005.71

0.00


5,532,079.99
3,426,946.66

0.00
(40,1 01.89)

4,180,956.91
5 4,140,855.02

5 0.00
1,520.65

12,095.10
13,615.75

0.00
9 4,652,780.86

$1,513,753.72
5 56,171,544.58

1043

 State Income Tax
General Property Tax
Rollback, Homestead, CAT
Fines Fees
Investment Earnings
Contributions
Miscellaneous
Return of Advances Out

Total

Salarieszene?ts
Supplies

Purchased Services
Library Materials
Capital Outlay
Other

Subtotal

Advances Out
Transfers Out

Total

Cleveland Public Library
Certi?ed Revenue, Appropriations and Balances
General Fund

For the Period Ending May 31, 2019

Certi?ed

Revenue (1)

22,447,383
33,635,180
2,400,000
180,800
574,090
36,400
1,227,361
0

60,501,214

Income
To Date

9,336,768
20,208,251
1,285,699
139,659
232,534
35,085
117,459
255,015

31,610,470

Expended;l

Appropria?onQL Encumbered

37,182,278
926,512
11,742,382
10,928,033
1,989,586
175,676

62,944,466

0
0

62,944,466

15,620,425
623,032
8,815,251
6,363,411
662,491
74,607

32,159,217

75,000
0

32,234,217

Balance

13,1 10,615
13,426,929
1,114,301
41,141
341 ,556
1,315
1,109,902
(255,015)

28,890,744

Balance

21,561,853
303,480
2,927,131
4,564,622
1,327,095
101,069

30,785,249

(75.000)
0

30,710,249

Note (1): Certi?cate from Cuyahoga County Budget Commission dated April 9, 2019.
Note (2): Subtotal Amended Appropriation of $56,752,1 81 .79 plus carried forward encumbrance of $6,192,284.63.
Note (3): Subtotal includes 40% expended and 11% encumbered.

Percent
To Date

42%
60%
54%
77%
41%
96%
10%



52%

Percent
To Date (3)

42%
67%
75%
58%
33%
42%

51%

51%

 

Percent
Prior
Year

41%
61%
50%
38%
50%
100%
54%
0%

52%

Percent
Prior
Year

38%
45%
72%
55%
30%
61%

48%

50%

 



1044

51110
51120
51130
51140
51150
51180
51190
51400
51610
51611
51612
51620
51625
51630
51640
51650
51900

Professional Salaries
Clerical Salaries

Non-Clerical Salaries
Buildings Salaries

Other Salaries

Severance Pay

Non-Base Pay

OPERS

Health insurance

Dental Insurance

Vision insurance

Life Insurance

Short Term Disability Insurace
Workers Compensation
Unemployment Compensation
Medicare - ER

Other Benefits

Sala rieszene?ls

52110
52120
52130
52140
52150
52210

Of?ce Supplies
Stationery
Duplication Supplies
Hand Tools

Book Repair Supplies

Janitorial Supplies

Cleveland Public Library

Appropriation, Expenditures and Balances

Current
Year
Appropriation

General Fund
For the Period Ending May 31, 2019

Total

Funds

Current
Year
Expenditures

Encumhered
and
Unpaid

Unencumbered

Balance

 

12,241,512.39
10,760,25904
1,306,477-03
4,354,116.00
534,924.26
0.00
475,000.00
4,181,573.32
4,299,714.82
225,998.16
17,528.88
13,644.00
27,792.24
155,341.02
10,000-00
399,237.08

21,251.64
$39,024,369.88

45,647.34
30,745.00
24,400.00
1,500.00
66,000.00
100,700.00

11,181 ,392.39
10.405.209.04
1,102,217.03
4,088,439.94
527,934.28
122,881.88
888,690-00
3,937,757.27
4,050,224.82
208,578.18
17,158.88
14,144.00
29,032.24
181,792.84
29,702.88
387,175.11
33,947-51

37,182,277.83
51,383.77
31,884-29
25,065.84
1,500.00
88,507.30
105,598.57

4,722,943.71
4,407,785.17
485,158.22
1,718,959.04
220,818.41
123,789.91
288,787.40
1,858,445.83
1,883,551.28
85,042.10
8,451.89
5,810.80
11,908.80
6,179.40
32,896.25
181,849.41
10,404.88

5 1559025988
20,387.80
15,287.32
11,172.49
389.34
24,883.37
48,519.54

0.00

0.00

0.00

0.00

0.00

0.00

0.00

0.00

0-00

0.00

0.00

0.00

0.00

0.00
11,802.99
368.95
17,993.30
30,165.24
2,452.18
3,811-10
230.99
0.00
660.08
11,943.45

8,458,448.88
5,997,423.87
837,058.81
2,387,480.90
307,117.85
(908.23)
819,922.80
2,279,311.84
2,388,873.58
121,538.08
10,707.19
8,533.40
17,123.84
155,813.24
(14,998.58)
225,258.75
5,549.33
9 _21,581,852.71
28,583.99
11,785.87
13,662.36
1,130.88
41,183.85
45,133.58

1045

52220
52230
52240
52300
52900

Electrical Supplies
Maintenance Supplies
Uniforms

Motor Vehicle Supplies
Other Supplies

Supplies

53100
53210
53230
53240
53310
53320

53340
53350
53360
53370
53380
53390
53400
53510
53520
53610
53620
53630

Travel/Meetings
Telecommunications
PostagefFreight

PRIOther Communications
Building Repairs

Machine Repairs

Building Maintenance
Machine Maintenance
Computer Maintenance
Motor Vehicle RepairslMaint
Contract Security
Landscaping

Insurance

RentlLeases
Equipment Rental
Electricity

Gas

Chilled Water

Cleveland Public Library
Appropriation, Expenditures and Balances
General Fund
For the Period Ending May 31, 2019

Current
Year
Appropriation

Total

Appropriated

Funds

Current

Year

Expenditures

Encumbered
and
Unpaid

Unencumbered

Balance

 

42,000.00
293,500.00
7,000.00
58,000.00
169,974.66

47,097.25
347,278.24
8,164.14
63,980.98
178,053.69

18,621.50
112,558.66
0.00
19,745.52
30,430.81

21,118.70
205,193.48
2,868.74
41,232.60
30,764.65

7,357.05
29,526.10
5,295.40
3,002.86
116,858.23

 

$839,467.00

100,000.00
272,836.00
78,600.00
273,000.00
132,028.00
21,000.00

502,000.00
176,961.70
336,694.90

27,000.00
680,000.00
10,000.00
421,856.00
154,127.49
279,346.12
1,914,664.00
135,594.00
795,776.00

926,51 2.07

117,023.72
297,253.07
92,875.36
316,832.82
162,830.01
26,433.62

603,381.02
276,061.84
347,344.94
31,938.23
729,958.82
10,450.00
421,856-00
158,484-08
114,563.14
1,980,138.93
158,258.49
904,311.44

302,756.1 5

35,975.79
104,358.61
17,480.64
53,341.19
51,405.15
7,510.78

155,991.21
89,902.62
197,731.03
9,519.40
433,277.27
5,290.00
1,390.00
63,372.12
7,371.29
719,713.65
. 96,339.90
124,991.65

5 320,275.97

27,040.68
164,503.61
66,451.80
40,856.04
95,330.23
924.66

90,117.87
72,921.44
9,818.96
20,928.81
280,869.24
450.00
0.00
92,742.42
12,579.94
1,215,868.55
60,003.44
731,196.93

303,479.95

54,007.25
28,390.85
8,942.92
222,635.59
16,094.63
17,998-18

357,271.94
113,237.73
139,794.95
1,490.02
15,512-31
4,720.00
420,466.00
2,369.54
94,611.91
24,556.73
1,915.25
48,122.86

1046

53640
5371 0
53720
53730
53800

53900 

?laterlSewer
Professional Services
Auditors Fees

Bank Servioe Charges
Library Material Control

Other Purchased Services

PurchasedlContracted Services

54110

54120
54210
54220
54310
54320
54325
54350
54500
54530
54600
54710
54720
54730
54790

54905
5491 0

Books

Continuations
Periodicals
Microforms

Video Media

Audio Media Spoken
Audio Media - Music
Computer Media
Database Services
eiv?ledia

lnterlibrary Loan
Bookbinding
Preservation Services
Preservation Boxing

Preservation Reformatting

Other LM-Hotspots
Other LM-Tablets Devices

Cleveland Public Library

Appropriation, Expenditures and Balances

Current
Year
Appropriation

General Fund
For the Period Ending May 31, 2019

Total
Appropriated
Funds

Current
Year
Expenditures

I Encumbered

and
Unpaid

Unencumbered

Balance

 

125,273.00
1,125,605.00
695,000.00
11,000.00
266,500.00
1,519,212.61

143,841.94
2,151,232.36
750,353.50
11,000.00
436,497.64
1,519,460.61

45,470.16
746,561.48
503,196.74

3,037.72
107,727.83
1,515,320.86

82,669.99
533,887.43
52,028.50
0.00
63,754.81
4,038.50

15,701.79
870,783.45
195,128.26

7,962.28
265,015.00
101.25

 

$1 0,054,074.82
2,085,000.00

291,000.00
790,000.00
30,600.00
1,615,000.00
90,150.00
172,650.00
0.00
570,000.00
1,622,600.00
3,000.00
20,000.00
20,000.00
5,000.00
25,000.00

200,000.00
0.00

11,742,381.58
2,480,741.32

486,205.10
1,648,065.69
69,249.00
1,978,823.35
117,693.90
260,490.65
729.88
1,223,120.47
2,289,454.39
4,135.00
46,455.69
53,993.71
14,339.60
50,515.20

200,000.00
4,019.70

5,096,266.99
818,884.64

143,737.85
663,177.21
18,461.61

- 754,797.35
47,142.57
72,536.50
693.38
593,502.34
607,547.27
1,941 -50
6,454.61
17,224.18
7,747.06
12,627.60

0.00 I

3,416.70

3,718,983.85
475,658.47

172,625.82
204,618.56
21,479.00
310,031.94
11,897.73
77,550.13
0.00

113,126.37.

1,017,467.39
2,193.50
17,940.89
18,875.30
1,663.80
13,393.80

134,996.00
0.00

2,927,130.74
1,186,198-01

169,841.43
780,269.92
29,308.39
913,994.06
58,653.60
110,404.02
36.50
516,491.76
664,439.73
0.00
22,060.19
17,894.23
4,928.74
24,493.80

65,004.00
603.00

1047'

Library Materials
55300 Construc?on?mprovements
55510 Furniture
55520 Equipment
55530 Computer Hardware
55540 Software
55700 Motor Vehicles
Capital Ou?ay
57100 Memberships
57200 Taxes
57500 Refundiseimbursements
Miscellaneous Expenses
59810 Advances Out

Advances

Transfers
TOTAL

Cleveland Public Library
Appropriation, Expenditures and Balances

Current
Year
Appropriation

General Fund
For the Period Ending May 31, 2019

Total
Appropriated
Funds

Current
Year
Expenditures

Encumbered
and
Unpaid

Unencumbered
Balance

 

 

$7,540,000.00

0.00
219,787.80
358,256.77
585,825.52
106,400.00
240,000-00

1 0,928,032.65

26,144.12
282,584.97
428,974.43
821,209.13
136,699.25
313,974.00

3,769,892.57

0.00
45,912.16
98,181.99

284,844.85
11,165.89
73,974.00

2,593,518.70

26,144.12
38,873.76
41,169.04
12,313.83
29,911.25

0.00

5 4,564,621.38

0.00
177,799.05
289,623.40
524,050.45

95,622.11
240,000.00

 

$1,510,270.09

87,767.38
15,000.00
71,232.62

1,989,585.90

89,478.68
15,487.89
70,709.82

514,078.89
41,790.46
5,431.77
3,303.28

5 148,412.00

12,100.22
8,979.03
3,002.21

1,327,095.01

35, 588.00
1 ,077.09
64,404-33

 

$174,000.00

0. 00

175,676.39

0.00

50,525.51

75,000.00

24,081.46

0.00

101,069.42

(75, 000. 00)

 

$0.00

5 0.00

75,000.00

0.00

975,000.00)

 

$0.00
$59,142,181.79

 

0.00
62 944 455.22

 

0.00
25,398,779.79

$0.00
6,835,437.22

 

0.00
ma.

 

1048

101

201
202
203
204
205
206
207
208
209
210
225
226
228
229
230
231
251
254
256
257
258

General Fund

Total General Fund

Anderson

Endowment for the Blind
Founders

Kaiser

Kraley

Library

Pepke

Wickwire

Wittke

Young

Fnends

Judd

Lockwood Thompson Memorial
Ohio Center for the Book
Schweinfurth

CLEVNET

OLBPD?Library for the Blind
MyCom

Learning Centers

Tech Centers

Early Literacy

Total Special Revenue Funds

Cleveland Public Library

Revenue, Expenditures and Changes in Fund Balances
For the Period Ending May 31, 2019

Beginning Year
Balance

22,891 ,431-19

Year to Date
Receipts

31,610,470.04

Year to Date
Expenditures

25,398,779.79

Year to Date
Encumbrances

6,835,437.22

Unencumbered
Balance

22,087,88422

 

22,691 .431.19

346,454.39
2,853,421.78
7,113,384.74

73,325.37

206,881.24

177,000.37

158,181.91
1,829,879.08

99,729.38
5,007,491.72
4,490.87
83,480.85
158,275.27
64.50
84,166.12
928,148.82
52,461.90
33,938.93
49,284.80
170,000.00
94,400.93

$1,610,470.04

13.09
(4,530.42)
143,580.83
0.00
504.31
1,206.10
(1,265.77)
3,419.24
0.00
2,385.58
0.00
81,889.75
94,748.50
2,300.00
72,578.00
3,099,842.92
628,415.00
115,961.60
25,000.00
0.00
150,000.00

5 25,398,779.79

528.08
0.00
640,799.83
0.00

0.00
4,275.00
0.00
983.59
0.00

0.00

0-00
55,550.83
88,391.45
1,992.08
18,354.00
1,973,194.68
605,495.97
85,495.00
17,294.79
180,000.00
137,644.25

5 6,835,437.22

0.00

0.00
799,230-02
0.00

0.00
399.56
0.00
11,834.72
0.00
553.07
100.00
35,362.29

95,010.95

0.00
3,840.00
1,297,003.23
24,186.69
51,242.97
24,353.99
0.00
59,883.15

22,067,884.22

345,939.40
2,848,891.36
5,818,915.72
73,325.37
207,185.55
173,531.91
156,896.14
1,820,899.99
99,729.36
5,009,304.23
4,390.87
34,217.48
89,619.37
372.42

134,548.12

755,791.63 

51,194.24
12,162-56
32,815.82
(10,000.00)
47,093.53

 

19,102,200.53

4,395,734.73

3,810,979.55

2,402,580.64

17,284,425.07

1049

401

501
502
503
504
505
506
507
508
509
510
511
512
513

901
905

Building a Repair

Total Capital Project Funds

'Abel

Ambler

Beard

Klein

McDonald
Rainer

Root

Sugarman
Thompson
Weidenthal
White

Beard Anna Young

Total Permanent Funds

Unclaimed Funds

CLEVNET Fines 8: Fees

Others

Total All Funds

Cleveland Public Library

Revenue, Expenditures and Changes in Fund Balances
For the Period Ending May 31, 2019

Beginning Year
Balance

5,532,079.99

Year to Date
Receipts

0.00

Year to Date
Expenditures

2,105,133-33

Year to Date
Encumbrances

1,632,403.50

Unencumbered

Balance

1,794,543.16

 

5,532,079.99

271,024.22
2,757.40
163,891.13
6,521.81
324,456.49
228,826.19
110,935.10
47,757.00
218,704-11
178,304.90
8,080.50
2,523,609.44
96,088.62

0.00

0.00
0.00
7,794.35
0.00
475.60
69.11

(490.76)
0.00

(34.57)
4,093.37
0.00

(2,046.35)
0.00

2,105,133.33

0.00

0.00
22,509.11
0.00
2,062.43
5,538.55
0.00

0.00
906.00
2,442-16
0-00
16,504.37
0.00

1,632,403.50

0.00
0.00
37,853.37
0.00
50.00
0-00
0.00
0.00
0.00
8,714.84
0.00
5,179.37
0.00

1,794,543.16

271,024.22
2,757.40
111,323.00
6,521.61
322,619.66
223,356.75
110,444.32
47,757.00
217,763.54
171,241.27
6,060.50
2,499,679.35
96,066.62

 

4,180,950.91

5,400.04
6,695.06

9 9,860.73

741.28
39,660.41

49,962.62

0.00
38,881.04

51,797.53

0.00
0.00

4,089,057.44

6,141.32
7,474.43

 

12,095.10

6 40,401.69

33,881.04

0.00

13,515.75

 

51.518.763.72

9 36,056,517.19

$1,403,736.33

10,922,218.94

5 

1050

Cleveland Public Library
Depository Balance Detail
For the Period Ending May 31, 2019

Balance of All Funds

KeyBank - Concentration Acct
KeyBank Checking (ZBA)
KeyBank - FSAAccount
Petty Cash I

Change Fund
KeyBank?Payroll Account (ZBA)

Cash in Library Treasury

PNC - Money Market

US. Bank - Investments

US Bank - Inv - Money Market
STAR Ohio Investment

STAR Plus Program

Investments

EndomentAcoount

Endowment Account

Cash in Banks and On Hand

3 55.171 544.58

0.00
107,598.26
5,207.19
320.00
1,620.00
255.52

 

115,000.97
10,199.26
34,046,41798
57,690.20
2,790,750.90
0.00

 

36,905,058.34
19,151 ,485.27

 

19,151,48527

5 56,171,54453

 

1051

Board Meeting

1 . INTERIM DEPOSITS

CLEVELAND PUBLIC LIBRARY

REPORT ON INVESTMENTS -- May 2019

REPORT 

 

in accordance with Ohio Revised Code Section 135.14, funds that become available periodically throughout the ?scal year are invested in short term
investments known as interim deposits. The investments are in securities that provide the highest interest rate consistent with the highest degree of
safety. Other balances are invested in US Treasury issues, Agency issues, commercial paper, and negotiable certificates of deposit as managed by
UACC (a Meeder Investment Management Company), STAR Ohio, STAR Plus, and a federal money market fund.

Following is a description of interim deposit earnings for the period May 1, 2019 through May 31, 201 9.

No. of

Investment Period

05101119 
05101119 -
05101119 -
05101119 
11107118 
11125118 
11130118 
11129118 
11106118 -
11115118 
11106118 -
12131118
11124118 -
11128118 
11122118 
11109118 -
02127119 -

05131119
05131119
05131119
05131119
05107119
05125119
05130119
05129119
05106119
05115119
05106119
05124119
05124119
05128119
05122119
05109119
05101119

Days

Amount

Various
Various
Various
Various
1,000,000
540,000
500,000
2,000,000
500,000
550,000
1,000,000
775,000
1,425,000
125,000
425,000
500,000
500,000

Bank

STAR Ohio

STAR Plus

U.S. Bank

PNC

Federal Farm Credit Bank

Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.
Federal National Mortgage Assn.
Federal National Mortgage Assn.
Federal National Mortgage Assn.
Federal Home Loan Bank

Federal National Mortgage Assn.
United States Treasury Note
Federal Farm Credit Bank

Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.
Federal Home Loan Bank

Federal Farm Credit Bank

Federal Farm Credit Bank

Interest Rate

Various
Various
Various
Various
1.300%
1.500%
1.270%
1 -500%
1 250%
1.375%
1.250%
1.125%
1.670%
1.950%
1.250%
1.500%
1.875%

Earned interest May 2019
Earned interest Year To Date

investment
income

8,192.15
0.00
15451
10.89
5,500.00
4,050-00
3,115.00
15,000.00
3,125.00
3,751.25
5,250.00
5,678.19
11,595.75
1,215.75
2,555.25
3,750.00
1,555.57

77,107.01
232,533.93

investment Form

Investment Pool

Bank Deposit Program
Sweep Money Market

Money Market

Federal Agency
Federal Agency
Federal Agency
Federal Agency
Federal Agency
Federal Agency
Federal Agency

Treasury Security

Federal Agency
Federal Agency
Federal Agency

Federal Agency -

Federal Agency

1052

1053

CLEVELAND PUBLIC LIBRARY

Board Meeting
June 18, 2019

REPORT ON CONFERENCE AND TRAVEL EXPENDITURES FOR MAY 2019

In accordance with Board Policy adopted by resolution on November 29, 1972,
a description of Conference and Travel Expenditures ls submitted.



Customers of SlrsiDynix Users Group (COSUGI)
Annual Conference
Minneapolis, Minnesota

United States Patent and Trademark Office
Patent and Trademark Resource Centers Program
Alexandria, Virginia

Northeast Ohio Regional Library System
Play Your Way to Literacy Through STEM and Musical Madness!
Huron, Ohio

Information Today
Computers in Libraries
Washington, DC.

Best Buy .
Teen Tech Center and Clubhouse Network Annual Conference
San Diego, California

Ohio Excels
Workforce and Education Conference
Columbus. Ohio

Northeast Ohio Regional Library System
Critical Conversations Conference: Mental Health Awareness
Twinsburg, Ohio

Government Documents Roundtabie of Ohio (GODORT of Ohio)
Spring Meeting
Columbus, Ohio

Ohio History Connection
Ohio History Day
Delaware, Ohio

Ohioana Library
Ohioa na Book Festival
Columbus, Ohio

Northeast Ohio Regional Library System
Gripes, Grumbles, and Grievances: improving Labor Relations
Cleveland, Ohio

Association of College and Research Lbrarles
Annual Conference
Cleveland, Ohio

Northeast Ohio Regional Library System
Early Literacy 101: An Ohio Readyto-Read Workshop
Stow, Ohio

DATE

3l25l'2019 - 31?2712019

4i8l'2019 - 4i12l?2019

4i'16i2019 - 4i1?i?l2019

3(2512019 - 3i2i3i2019

4iBi2019 - 4l'12i2019

5i16l'2019

4i4i201 9

5i17i2019

4l2 i720 1 9

4127i2019

5i9f201 9

4l1112019 - 4l'13r'2019

5i16f2019

10f3

TRUSTEEISTAFF
MEMBER

James Benson

James Bettinger

Tawana Campbell

Melissa Canan

Michael Dalby

Michael Dalby

Jaime Declet

Sarah Dobransky

Sarah Dohransky

Nicholas Durda

Maria Estrella

Pamela Eyerdam

Patricia Fullrrier

mam

AMOUNT

1,314.96

1,986.47

221.20

1,158.66

1,172.43

160.08

33 .47

167.04

147.32

314.14

2.03

519.00

15.00

ITEM

Northeast Ohio Regional Library System

Critical Conversations Conference: Mental Health Awareness

Twinsburg, Ohio

Northeast Ohio Regional Library System
Escape Rooms from Scratch
Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio

Northeast Ohio Regional Library System
A Day for Public Service
Cleveland Heights, Ohio

Northeast Ohio Regional Library System
Early Literacy 101: An Ohio Ready-to-Read Workshop
Stow, Ohio

Ohio Library Council
Community Engagement at Your Library
Columbus, Ohio

Case Westem Reserve University
Data Days CLE
Cleveland, Ohio

Northeast Ohio Regional Library System
Early Literacy 101: An Ohio Ready-to-Read Workshop
Stow, Ohio

Northeast Ohio Regional Library System
Early Literacy 101: An Ohio Ready-to-Read Workshop
Stow, Ohio

Avon Lake Public Library
Adapted Storytime Meeting
Avon Lake. Ohio

Best Buy

Teen Tech Center and Clubhouse Network Annual Conference

San Diego, California

Detroit Hispanic Development Corporation
Best Buy Teen Tech Center Grand Opening
Detroit, Michigan

Customers of Users Group (COSUGI)
Annual Conference
Minneapolis, Minnesota

Customers of SirsiDynix Users Group (COSUGI)
Annual Conference
Minneapolis, Minnesota

Libraries for the Blind and Physically Handicapped
2019 MidlahdiNorthem Conference
New York City, New York

State Library of Ohio
Ohio State School for the Blind Art Show
Columbus, Ohio

Cleveland State University
Public Managen?eht Academy
Cleveland, Ohio

1054

DATE

4141201 9

3171201 9

51812019

511612019

511512019

411512019

511 612019

511312019

5191201 9

41812019 - 411212019

312612019

312512019 - 312712019

312512019 - 312712019

41812019 411012019

412512019I

511512019 - 211912020

20f3

TRUSTEE1STAFF
MEMBER

Alison Guerln

Libby Hampton

Rhonda Henderson

Allison Kennedy

Alexandra Kmiecik

Nathaniel Kiieger

Jen nifer Moncayo

Sandra Nessa

Ronald Palka-Roman

Jill Pappenhagen

Jill Pappenhagen

John Pas

Hilary 

William Reed

William Reed

Oliver Reyes

AMOUNT

33.99

45.18

15.00

15.00

379.15

40.00

15.00

15.00

25.81

111.16

185.60

1,050.42

1,116.34

1.293.22

146.16

2,700.00

ITEM

Northeast Ohio Regional Library System
A Day for Public Service
Cleveland Heights. Ohio

Ohio Valley Group of Technical Services Librarians
Annual Conference
Lexington, Kentucky

Northeast Ohio Regional Library System

1055

DATE

5f?f20 '1 9

5l12i2019 - 5l14l2019

(ii-41201 9

Critical Conversations Conference: Mental Health Awareness

Twinsburg, Ohio

Northeast Ohio Regional Library System
A Day for Public Service
Cleveland Heights, Ohio

Customers of SirsiDynix Users Group (COSUGI)
Annual Conference
Minneapolis, Minnesota

Ohio Library Council
Legislative Day
Columbus, Ohio

Ohio Valley Group of Technical Services Librarians
Annual Conference
Lexington, Kentucky

Ohio Digitization Interest Group
March Meeting
Columbus, Ohio

Northeast Ohio Regional Library System
Directors' Retreat: Steps to Stress-Free Leadership
Ohio

TOTAL

FUND

General

Library for the Blind and Physically Disabled
LookWood Thompson

CLEVNET

Thompson

TOTAL

5811201 9

312512019 - 3(2712019

4191201 9

5111212019 - 511412019

TRUSTEEISTAFF
MEM BER

Reginald Rudolph

Barbara Satow

Rosa Simone

Benjie Smith

Megan Trifiletti

Felton Thomas

Erin Valentine

 

3(2612019 Amia Wheatiey
5!22f2019 59312019 Robin Wood
SUMMARY
MAY YEAR TO DATE

$7,004.32 $35.975.79
1,439.38 $1,439.38
4,686.47 $10,086.47
4,787.63 $6,631.31
0.00 $2,442.16
$17,917.80 $58,575.11

3of3



AMOU NT

15.00

331.38

32.60

15.00

1,245.91

318.62

805.38

174.58

20.00

17,917.80

1056

REPORT 

 

CLEVELAND PUBLIC LIBRARY
Board Meeting
June 18, 2019
Safe, Warm and Dry Construction Proiect
In accordance with the Boa rd resolution adopted on December 21, 2017, a report to the Board of Trustees on direct expenditures for the
materials and services as budgeted for the Project and not covered by the GMP and expenditures made from the Owner?s Contingency
Fund resulting from changes and additions to the Project that have already been made by the Library, and will be made in the future, and
which are not included in the GMP, is hereby submitted:
For the Period Ending May 31, 2019

    

Encumbered Expanded

URS Corporation - Asbestos Survey and Testing - 33,728.21
Osborn Engineering Company - Professional Architectural and Engineering Services 31,579.05 418,350.95
Regency ConstrUCtion Services, Inc. - Construction Manager at Risk 426,420.39 3,827,642.08
Direct Expenditures paid from Contingency Fund - 51,278.50

 

- 457,999.44 5 4,330,999.74
Available Budget from Owner's Contingency and Permit Fund $211,000.82

 

Direct Expenditures

 

 

 

Vendor Decription Encumbered Expanded

11/3/2017 City of Cleveland 171701 Building Plan Processing Fee 5 - - 5 3,280.00
Permits for lenville, Harvard

1/22/2018 City of Cleveland 180314 Lee, Lorain and Jefferson - 19,256.25
Permits for Collinwood, Fulton,

7/15/2018 City of Cleveland 181262 and Langston Hughes 18,752.25

 

Upgrade/ Replace existing
indoor wall mount fixtures for
Addison Branch that should
have been part of Safe, Warm

 

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10/22/2018 Grainger 181752 and Dry project 9,990.00
.. . 8181319157Change Order Descriptlo Amount I I
Credit for not performing the demo, rework and soil infill of the masonry
PCO #2 02/21/18 planters at Rockport 5 (17,122.53)
PCO #4 02/21/18 Change from wall-hung to floor-mounted water closets at Lorain (1,191.80)
PCO #5 02/21/18 Lorain pump changes per the returned submittal (450.56)
Lorain additional work associated with the existing light ballasts located
PCO #6 02/21/18 in the basement in lieu of light fixtures 2,855.81
PCO #7 02/21/18 Credit for hand dryers furnished by CPL in lieu of Regency . (3,535.00)
Two additional precast concrete bumper blocks at Glenville per the
P60 #8 02/21/18 returned submittal 252.50
PCO #9 02/28/18 Additional lighting control to create 4 lighting zones at Glenville 2,038.21
Gle'nville Emergency Lighting: Furnish and install emergency lights that
PCO #10 02/28/18 are required 1,078.14
. PCO #11 02/28/18 Revisions to electrical panel at Lorain (774.67)
PCO #12 02/28/18 Credit for attaching to basement lights to existing circuit at Lorain (356.53)
PCO #13 02/28/18 Complete Installation of emergency exit lighting at Lorain 4,672.07
PCO #14 03/21/18 Replace 1" water valve at Lorain that failed and needed to be replaced 716.09
Additional painting at Lorain behind existing removed iigh?t?fif?iies where
PCO #15 03/21/18 walls were not painted 1,187.76
P60 #16 03/21/18 Furnish and lnstali materiais to repair the Lorain ramp 6,077.71
P60 #17 03/21/18 Added occupancy indicators at Lor, Jeff, and Rock 169.42

 

Warm and Page 1 of 6

1057

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Changegtclers Rem 

PCO #18 03/21/18 Credit for Jefferson thermostats as requested by CPL (1,864.46)
?Replace additional GFCI receptacle on the roof that was In need

PCO #19 03/21/18 of replacement 445.32
Revisions for Harvard Lee dorrs/hardware per the returned HL doors,

PCO #20 03/21/18 frames, hardware submittal 2,578.89
Plumbing camera and investigation work for the sanitary lines completed

PCO #21 03/21/18 on 3/6/18 and vent pipe completed on 3/16/18 as requested by CPL 1,483.69
Repair/infill abandoned window opening that was discovered under the

FCC) #25 04/10/18 exterior ramp during ramp rework 805.84

P60 #26 04/10/18 Added flashing in the Lorain basement to help water infiltration issues 1,181.70

PCO #1

03/21/18 rec?d 5/14 Alternate #2 Carnegie West restroom configuration option budget pricing 17,546.21

POD #22

03/28/18 rec'd 5/14 Added check valves at Lorain 755.48

PCO #23 Relocation of Mo exhaust drops at Glenville that conflicted with the toilet

03/28/18 rec'd 5/14 partition layout 855.19

PCB #24

03/28/18 rec'd 5/14 Lorain concrete repairs at exterior storage closet door 3,415.28

PCO #3 

02/21/18 rec?d 5/18 Credit for signage manufacturer (858.50)

Amendment No 2 Eliminate the Rockport Branch from the'projeCt (added to Owner?s

#33 Contingency and Permit fund) (305,582.46)

PCO #38

05/23/18 Steel costs for infilling the unforeseen restroom hole 7,184.13

PCO #39 Jefferson Boiler #1 and #2 cleaning/preventative maintenance and

05/30/18 inspection as required by the city inspector 680.74

PCO #40 .

05/30/18 Jefferson unit heater demo to accommodate updated restroom layout 680.74

PCO #42 Reimbursement for building permits needed for the Addison Branch and

05/30/18 Carnegie West Branch 16,649.55

PCO #43 Modify and reinstall shelving in the Harvard Lee closet that contains -

06/06/18 ductwork per direction of Eric Herman 398.92

PCO #44 The removal of loose brick and patching of the chimney on the roof ofthe

06/20/18 Jefferson Branch 757.50
Plumbing, drywall, and tile work associated with RFIs 20/22 to repair the

FCC broken Lorain sanitary plpe. Remaining work will be submitted under

04/25/18 rec'd 7/13 PCO 27b. 14,714.10
Additional abatement/demo associated with additional LR sanitary Work. - 

PCO #27b Remove and replace 2nd floor countertop and lstall a new mirror. install

04/25/18 two cieanouts as requested by CPI 4,922.71

P60 #28

04/25/18 Revised hardware at Lorain 742.35

PCO #29

04/25/18 Harvard Lee. exit signs and emergency lights per RFI 42 1,324.69

PCB #30 Harvard Lee additional lighting zones per RFI 31 and approved zoning

05/01/18 suggestion 3,439.45

PCB #31

05/01/18 Jefferson emergency lights 2,878.50

PCO #32

05/01/18 Glenville lintel repair as directed in the RFI response 339.94

PCO #41a

07/11/18 Credit for the elimination of the HL handrails (1,050.40)

PC0 #4113 Reconciliation forthe Rockport handrail credit due to an originally

07/11/18 incorrect schedule of values 7,857.80

PCO #45 Fabrication and installation of aluminum jacketing to insulate two dutt

8/8/18 enclosures and make these ducts per RH 69 8,733.47

PCO #45 Furnish and install a new flue though the roof for the existing hot water

8/7/18 tank at the Addison Branch per RFI 31 678.69

 

0100nstmotiongProjectsiSafe Warm and 

REPORT 

Page 2 of 6

 

1058

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

male

Change Orders Description Amount

PCB #47 Light fixtures called out in RFI 79. Lighting not originally called out for the

8/7/18 ceiling area in the toilet rooms. 2,011.73

PCB #48 Remove and replace caulk and backer rod at the northeast walkway at

8/7/18 the Jefferson Branch 235 .40
Exploration, excavation and subsequent corrective work at and adlacent
to the frost slab at the Jefferson Branch due to an unforeseen pipe. Leech

PCB #49 beds were added to the ends ofthe pipe that was uncovered per CPL

8/7/18 direction 2,140.40

PCO #50

8/7/18 Credit for not completing the step crack repair at the Jefferson Branch (2,020.00)

PCO #51

8/7/18 Credit for not installing the book drop at the Jefferson Branch (151.50)

PCO #52 Cost to add emergency signs and exit lights back into the Carnegie West

8/14/18 branch per RFI 90 6,155.99

PCO #55

8/14/18 Cost to install Carnegie West restroom suhfloor as directed in RFI 93 4,272.30

PCO #56 Concrete floor infill work and tile patching at the Jefferson Branch due to

8/15/18 RFI 65 1,143.32
Addition of 6 vibration isolators for the rooftop AHU at Carnegie West per

PCO #57 RFI 99. Purchase of vibration Isolators was previously approved to avoid

8/22/18 schedule delays. 3,753.16

PCS #60

8/22/18 Additional terracotta repair at the Carnegie West Branch per RH 95 3,787.50
Increasing from 50% to 100% at north and west turret

PCO #51 structure at the Langston Hughes Branch per RFI 88. Added sealant

8/22/18 removal and replacement at the same location 6,344.82
Core drilling and filling/grouting the sunken slabs to level the sidewalks at

PCO #54 the Langston Hughes Branch per RFI 109. This price does not include

8/29/18 modification to the existing curb. 4,421.78

PCO #66 

8/29/18 Lowering pull stations per the city inspector at the Jefferson Branch. 664.58 -

PCO #67 Lowering one fire alarm pull station per RFI 92 at the Carnegie West

8/29/18 Branch. 124.23

PCO #58 Lighting controls for lighting zones per RFI 31 for the Carnegie West 

8/29/18 Branch 778.44

PCO #69 Modify and re-route the return air duct through the bathroom at the

8/29/18 Addison Branch per 97 992.12

PCO #72 Furnish and Install new soffit In front of existing window to allow for

08/31/18 lnstalltion of ceiling at 3?5" at the Carnegie West Branch per RFI 105 388.85
Shift new toilet 3"east to accommodate location of floorioists at the

P50 #73 Carnegie West Branch per RFI 111. Patching of floor at original location of

08/31/18 the toilet and adjusting wall type to maintain 5'0" turning radius 515.10

PCB #74

08/31/18 Lowering of fire alarm pull stations at the Addison Branch per RFI 92 1,440.60

PCO #58

09/04/18 Cost to seal roof seams at the Carnegie West Branch 17,574.00
Remove and replace existing smoke detectors, pull station, and (1)

PCO #71 born strobe that were not shown in the drawings at Carnegie West per

09/12/18 RFI 104 7,113.13
Installation of window fiom to the window in the new restroom at

PCO #75 Carnegie West per RFI 100. Window film to be Installed as Fasara

09/19/18 Glass Finish" and the pattern is to be "Frost and Mat Milky White? 570.65

PCO #76

09/19/18 Credit for 2 roof strainers at the Lorain Branch (101.00)

PCO #77 existing to remain ceiling lights that were attached to the

09/19/18 roof and not properly installed at the Fulton Branch per RFI122 3,429.70

rcu a 

09/19/18? Installation of one wall hydrant in the men's room per RFI 121 353.50

PCO #79 Final Rockport mechanical credit Including mechanicai items that were

09/19/18 able to be returned. (81,100.98)

 

Warm and Dry__10798b4otivity_10798,xls

Page 3 of6

 

1059

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

were
Change Orders Description Amount
PCO #30 Salvaging and rehanging the women?s restroom door at the Addison
09/19/18 Branch per RFI 116 161.79
PCO #81 Addition of i1) 2" we strainer before the heating Water pumps at the
09/19/18 Jefferson Branch per punchlist request. 1,551.36
PCB #82 Installation of new ceiling tile and grid in the Men's Restroom an
09/19/18 Women's Restroom at the Fulton Branch 1,919.00
vvest requesteu Dy I-ierman. Inls
includes washing the interior and exterior windows and frames of the
PCO #83 skylight, vacuuming all carpet, sweeping and mopping floors and cleaning
09/26/18 the restroom area 2,020.00
PCO #34 Replacement of damaged storm clean out pipe and fittings at the Fulton
09/25/18 Branch per RFI 117 895.8?
Roof maintenance reconciliation allowance completed at the Glenville
Branch. Roofing Work includes the following: strip in all seems and roof
curb flashings, clean roof drains, strip in all vent pipes and conduit
P50 #35 penetrations, infill all pitch pockets with pourable sealer and install walk
09/25/18 pads for a total of $14,430 ofthe the 515,000 (525.20}
PCO #52 Fabrication'and installation of 4 pipe reducers at Carnegie West per RFI
08/28/18 Bl). 526. 21
Ll'eClliI tor new at LamW
installation of a new frame, door and hardware for opening 17CW to be
PCO #55 removed from the scope of Work. Door, frame and hardware material
08/28/18 was turned over the library. (383.77}
Removal and reconstruction of an existing pier at the Addison Branch per
PCO #70 RFI 98. This price includes the removal and reinstallation of 3 light
10/03/18 fixtures in the pier. 5,476.65
PCO #85 Additionai striping requested by Eric Herman at the handicap ramp at the
10/03/18 Jefferson Branch 505.00
- Additional work and material needed for updated asphalt amount
PCO #37 needed per RH 119. Price includes additional 246 square feet of full
10/03/18 depth pavement replacement 3,076.46
Addition of single circuit and 3 wores for a direct tie In for a future door
PCO #38 opener at ADA entrance at Carnegie West per RH 105. Price includes
10/03/18 painting of conduit to match existing wall color. 850.37
PCO #39 Fabrication and installation of 3 LED wall packs to the exterior back wall
10/03/18 of the Addison Branch per RFI 114 and Eric Herman's request. 2,542.14
PCO #90
10/03/18 Providing power to the circulating pumps at Carnegie West per RFI 129 7,387.54
PCB #93 
10/10/18 Exit and Emergency lights needed for the restrooms at the Fulton Branch. 4,552.03
PCB #95 Additional concrete work requested at the Collinwood Branch including 
10/22/18 removal and replacement of concrete and steel reinforcements. 12,870.43
PCO #95 Provide and install light fixtures for the restroom at Fulton requested in
10/24/18 the RH 125 1,782.69
Removal of TruSpun pip and fittings with cast iron pipe and fittings for the
chase vent at the restrooms. Patch and repair walls and ceilings will
come out of the interiors patching allowance. A 10 daytime extension to
the substantial completion date is requested due to discovery, pricing,
PCO #98 approval and work completion of this piping. This extension is based on a
10/24/18 10/23/18 approval 3,620.85
Additional terracotta repair at Carnegie West. Repairs are
PCO #9?4 recommended due to cracks, failed/missing mortar and displacement of
10/29/18 terracotta. Not to exceed price. 9,288.97
PCO #63
10/31/18 Cost for a 3.5'x7'x4" section of concrete pavement at the Glenville branch 488.35
Additional contractors and switching per the lighting zones provided in
PCO RFI 31 for the Collinwood branch. This pricing has been revised to
10/3 1/18 exclude tax that was accidentally included in POD 92. 3,585.40
PCB #99 Additional asphalt work requested by the Cleveland Public Library for the
10/31/18 alleyway next to the Collinwood Branch. 13,020.13
Warm and Page 4 of 6

 

1060

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

?9812
Chan Orders 291mm amass;
P00 #100 .
10/31/18 Credit for the deleted light pole work at the Addison branch per RFI 114 (390.73)
FCC #101 Removal and replacement of the air separator, air vent and expansion
10/31/18 tank at Collinwood per RFI 144 2,232.00
FCC #102 Demolition of old conduit and wire and replacement with new feeder to
10/31/18 at Collinwood per 1,363.01
Price to demolish tile and drywall and replace tile In the restroom at FL
FCC #103 due to mold and RFI 117. This price also includes the removal of ACT
10/31/18 ceiling In the restrooms at Fulton. 697.81
P00 #104
10/31/18 Price to replace 200 amp disconnect for at Collinwood per RFI 136 858.91
PCB #105 Labor arld scaffolding costs to change 38 light bulbs at Carnegie West per
10/31/18 CPL request 924.27
Touch up painting or the door at Fulton per RFI 131 and Eric Herman
PCB #105 request. Pricing also includes labor credit for Installation of door that was
11/09/18 deleted. (39-13)
PCB #107 Replacing the N205 for motor power disconnect at Carnegie West per RFI
11/09/18 130 136.04
PCO #109
11/09/18 Mold removal needed In the mechanical room at Fulton. 675.92
PCO #110. Scraping and painting the exterior railings on the west side of Collinwood
11/09/18 per RFI 137 and 139. 1,262.50
PCO #112 Installation of a backflow for the new boiler feed at Carnegie West per RFI
11/09/18 134. 1,085.75
P50 #103 Additional heater and wiring and replacement of the motor starter for
11/14/18 the air handling unit at Fulton per RFI 143. 710.02
Labor credit for (2) exterior railings on the west side of
FCC #111 Collinwood per RFI 13? and 139. Railings were ordered previously and
11/14/18 will be turned over to the library. (1,756.36)
FCC #113 Labor credit for the Installation of the heater that was not needed at
11/14/18 Langston Hughes per RFI 120. (707.00)
PCO #114 Installation of backflow preventer on the water main at Carnegie West
11/14/18 per RFI 134. 1,633.17
PCO #115 Removal and relnstailation of new fuses at Langston Hughes needed per
11/14/18 city Inspector. 293.95
Rework of the restrooms at CollinWood due to the discovery of tru spun
PCB #115 piping and RFI 149. Price includes demolition of existing restroom
11/14/18 features. 6,453.10
PCO #117 Replacement of 5 horn strobe devices to with fire alarm system and
11/14/18 painting patching required at Fulton per RFI 142. 1,506.47
PCO #118 Budget reconciliation for electrical wire protection at Collinwood that was
11/14/18 not needed. . (5,050.00)
Replace TruSpun Pipe and Fittings with cast iron in the staff bathroom, to
PCO #120 the drinking fountain air admittance valve and the front sink pipe In the
11/26/18 basement. 3,847.09
PCO #122 Replacement ofthe fiberglass reinforced panel behind the drinking
11/26/18 fountain at Collinwood. 368.64
. Demolition required as described In RFI 93 for the unforeseen floor grout
PCO #97 Infill that was discovered after tile demolition In the restroom at Carnegie
11/28/18 West that took place on 8/1 and 8/3. 3,765.28
PCO #119 Additional conduit and motor starters needed for pumps 3 and 4 at
11/28/18 Collinwood per RFI 153. 3,398.72
P50 #123 Budget reconciliation for ground penetrating radar allowance that was
11/28/18 not needed. (3,030.00)
PCO #124 Replacement of the Water heater at Collinwood due to poor condition of
1 1/28/18 the existing water heater. 557.52
0:100nsiruotionHProjectsiSafe Warm and Page 5 of 6

 

1061

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Change Orders Description mount

PCO #125 Additional abatement that took place on 8/28 In the basement at

11/28/18 Carnegie West due to the shift of toilet per RFI 111 1,761.65

PCO #127 Inspection of VAVs and reconnection of VAVs 3 and 7 at Collinwood.

12/20/18 Inspection of VAVs took place per Eric Herman?s approval. 629.31

P50 #123 Demolition of (2) exhaust drops, installation of (2) new exhaust ducts and

12/20/18 (3) exhaust grills In the restroom at Collinwood 1,510.54

PCO #133 Repair of an additional lintel on the east elevation that was approved to

12/21/18 be done on time and material basis at Collinwood 2,265.28
Credit for not Installing the door operator at Lorain that Was unable to be

PCO #139 Installed clue to existing condition space limitations. Door operator was

12/26/18 turned over to CPL (204.50)

PCO #130 Fixing the hanging light that was damaged at Fulton due to the previous

12/27/18 improper connection of the light ?xture 144.23

PCO #131 Credit for the tuckpolnting of the wast elevation of Collinwood that was

12/27/18 deleted from the scope per RFI 138 (4,490.45)

PCO #132 Credit for the deletion of the replacement of the west entrance

12/27/18 stair/platform at Collinwood per RFI 137 (2,038.18)

P50 #133 Credit for the elimination of clear coat application to (21} Terra Cotta

12/27/18 Columns at Carnegie West per owner and architect direction (1,939.20)

PCO #134 Fixing and maintaining the existing frost slab at Fulton in lieu of replacing

12/27/18 It per RFI 124 (1,010.00)
Caulking to fill voids In the concrete steps and landing at the west entry

PCO #137 and the Joint between the asphalt and concrete at the West basement

12/27/18 stair at Collinwood per 137 and 139 901.93

PCO #129

01/08/19 Budget reconciliation for the door closer allowance that was not needed. (1,313.00)

PCO #135 Caulking at the exterior of the restroom at Fulton to stop and prevent

01/03/19 further water leakage Into the building. 556.50

PCB #140 Additional electrical work required by the electrical Inspector at

01/03/19 Collinwood 558.61
ReconEI-llatlon of drywall patching allowances that was included in the

FCC #141 Interiors package. Ailowance will be reconciled as follows: Carnegie

01/08/19 West Fulton and Jefferson (5,313.26)
Addition of a guardrail to the ramp at Collinw00d and painting the

PCB #135 guardrail per Andy Cygan?s bulletin. A temporary guardrail has been

01/28/19 installed while the permanent guardrail is being fabricated. 3,880.82

PCO #144

01/25/19 Reconciliation of the temporary HVAC allowance (4,385.68)

PCO #142

01/25/19 Reconciliation of the art protection allowance (1,443.83)

PCO #142

01/25/19 Reconciliation of the door rework allowance (11,417.01)

PCO Collinwood tile work and reconciliation of window patching allowance. -

02/11/19 The remainder of tile reconciliation for Fulton is included. (623.17)

PCO additional automatic air vents requested by the owner during the

02/26/19 trainig session at Carnegie West 953.44

 

Change Order Number: 010

05/29/19

Reconciliation of the contingency

(18,911.58)

 

   

 

 

O:iConstIuction__ProJectsiSafe Warm and Dry_10798iAcliviiyJO798xls

(171 753 84)

  

REPORT 

 

Page 6 of 6

1062

CLEVELAND PUBLIC LIBRARY

Board Meeting
June 18, 2019

South Branch Renovation Proiect

3.53.933

In accordance with the Board resolution adopted on January 18, 2018, a report to the Board of Trustees on expenditures and contracts entered into,
including those in excess of $25,000, to pay the costs resulting from permitting and changes and additions to the Project which may be made in the
future by the Library, and which are not included in the GMP, is hereby submitted:

   

282282

   
    

For the Period Ending May 31 2019


  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

D_at_e Decription Expanded GMP Increase
12j12/2017 City Salvage 171932 Abatement forAir Monitoring 5 - 11,050.00
212072018 City of Cleveland 180447 Permit fee - 37,772.92
1273172018 Laboratory, inc. 182054 Concrete and Soil Testing - 8,365.95
6730f2018 The Albert M. Higley (20., LLC 161895 Change Order it 001 3,768.22
876/2018 The Albert M. Higley Co., LLC 161895 Change Order ii 002 40,350.26
8727/2018 The Albert M. Higley Co., LLC 151895 Change Order ii 003 31,758.84
9/10f2018 The Albert M. Higley Co., LLC 151895 Change Order it 004 31,049.96
57372019 The Albert M. Higley Co., LLC 161896 Change Order it 005 {14,476.37}
5 . 57,188.87 5 92,450.91
Owner?s Contingency and Permit Fund Available Balance $105,450.33 

 

 
 

.I 

 

2mm" bored
HEM Architects, LLC - Architectural Design Services 5 6,510.00
The Albert M. Higley Co., LLC - Construction Manager at Risk 550,333.52

Furniture, Fixtures, Equipment and Technology
Direct Expenditures paid from Contingency Fund

5

5

 

emcee
317, 500.00

3,347,118.02
115,654.26

188.37

556,843.52 5 3,837,461.15
Available Budget as of 05/31{2019 

  

105,695.33

 

      

8080004088830
Change 0rd er 001
P00 #00001 Add ed abatement 4,459.22
PCO #00002 Deducted wail protection (1,342.46)
PCO #00003 Deduct fountain drain pipe {1,536.00}
PCO #00004 Added drain to water heater 2,177.46
5 3,768.22
Change Order 002
PC0 #00005 Office steel support 7,976.96
PCO #00006 Add walk and stairs 10,639.80
PCO #00007 Lintel exploration 21,733.50
40,350.26
Change Order ii 003
PC0 #00008 Computer desk inset panel 1,720.32
PCO #00009 Split cost of items 1,221.59
PCO #00010 Book cart credit (1,396.69)
PCO #00012 Remove pipes at skylight 1,045.30
PCO #00013 Landscaping contract 3,928.84
PCO #00014 Lintel replacement 25,239.48
31,758.84
Change Order ii 004
PC0 #00015 eduie extension 18,004.00
PCO #00016 Added wall panel millwurk only 6,463.52
PC0 #0001? Ceiling patch 741.65
PCO #00018 Backflow testing 288.60
PCO #00019 Ceiling repairs 4,850.79
PCO #00020 Clerestory blocking and lintel 701.40
31,049.96
Change Order it 004 - 
PCO #00026 Ceiling plaster repair Teen, Adult 5 2,401.26
PC0 #0002? Deduct Clark Street scope (10,582.02)
PCO #00028 Electrical field ticket work 11,181.98
PCO #00029 Electrical security wiring install 7,167.48
PCO #00030 Window film cost add change 3,221.30
PCO #00031 Temporary handrail install 8,672.26
PCO #00032 GMP contract deduct (36,538.63)
5 (14,470.37)



 

Page 1 0H

1063

mm
CLEVELAND PUBLIC LIBRARY

Board Meeting
June 18, 2019



In accordance with the Board resolution adopted on May 22, 2018, a report to the Board of Trustees on expenditures and
contracts entered into, including those in excess of $25,000, to cover the cost of Owner-requested changes and unforeseeable
conditions uncovered during the removal and replacement of the Lakeshore Facility roof, and if needed, to cover the costs of
permitting and inspection fees, is hereby submitted:

th d'

    

          
 

  
        

 

 

931g I Decription Encumbered Expanded
7/16/2018 Warren Roofing 8: 181234 City permit
Insulating Co. 5 - 10,151.30
5 - 10,151.30

Owner?s Contingency and Permit Fund Available Balance $54,398.70

 

 

 

 

Encumbered Expanded

Construction Resources, Inc. - Prepare Specifications! Construction

Administration 53 5,060.00 44,840.00
Warren Roofing insulating Co. - Contractor - 643,500.00
Direct Expenditures paid from Contingency Fund - 10,151.30

 

5,060.00 5 698,491.30
Available Budget as of 05/31/2019 -

*Project nearly completed; budget reduced by $296,448.70

041 1 .xls

1064

REPORT 

CLEVELAND PUBLIC LIBRARY

Board Meeting
June 18, 2019

AGREEMENTS ENTERED INTO FOR ENTERTAINMENT AND VENDORS FOR 2019
CPL150 ACTIVITIES FOR THE PERIOD ENDING MAY 31. 2019

In accordance with the Board resolution adopted on April 18, 2019, agreements entered
into, including those in excess of $25,000, for entertainment and vendors for the
CPL150 activities, provided that the total cost of all agreements does not exceed
$244,000, which costs shall be charged to the Founders Fund Account 20380103-
53710 (Professional Services) are hereby submitted.

 

 

 

 

 

Description Vendor Amount
Museum of Contemporary

Visual Artist and Musical Act Art, Cleveland 5,000.00
South Park Princeton

Roy Weed Jr. Speaker Fee Productions, lnc. 24,500.00

Musical Performance by Reading RAMM

Glenville Summer Camp Students Edward Phatty" Banks 1,100.00
Kiera Danyale Brown, The

CPL 150 Streetfest Balloon Twisting - Twister 425.00

Art Exhibition Service Commission - Glen

Infante will paint a mural onsite July 27, 2019 A.R.T.S lnc.. LLC 5,000.00

Visual Arts Programming with Teaching Artist Center for Arts-Inspired

Sequoia Bostwick Learning 1,000.00

 

License fee for the use of Sesame Workshop
Assets for the Exhibit World of Puppets for
the term: Sesame Workshop 24,500.00

Total for the Period Ending May 31, 2019 61,525.00
Cumulative Total 147,525.00

1065

 

gum
CLEVELAND PUBLIC LIBRARY
Regular Employment Report
510112019 TO 513112019
TERM1INACT
EMPLOYEE NAME DEPARTMENT JOB TITLE DATE

RESIGNATIONS 
AUCHTER, KYLE Langston Hughes LIBRARY ASST-COMP EMPH 0513112019
BLACKWELL. JOSLYN Library for the Blind LIBRARY 0513012019
HAIRE, EMILY Rockport PAGE 0511412019
JIRA. JOSEPH Shelf Pages PAGE 0512812019
LYBROOK, ABIGAIL Center for Local Glol PAGE 0512312019
PAGE, DONOATHER Glenville PAGE 0512312019
STRICKLAND, KETTRIN Youth Services PAGE 0513012019
WILSON, TENA Deputy Director DEPUTY DIRECTOR 0513112019
OTHER TERMINATIONS
DEJESUS, MAGDALENA Science Technology PAGE 0511612019
SCHOOP. ELI Harvard Lee LIBRARY ASST-COMP EMPH 0511512019

1066

CLEVELAND PUBLIC LIBRARY
SALARY CHANGES REPORT
FROM TO 0573112019

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EMPLOYEE: JAENKE, RYAN 0 CURRENT GRADE: EFFECTIVE DATE
JOB TITLE: GRAPHICS DESIGNER CURRENT STEP: 3 FOR GRADEISTEP
PREVIOUS CURRENT
TYPE OF CHANGE VALUE VALUE REASON FOR CHANGE
SALARY NON BASE WAGE 26.25 26.25
EMPLOYEE: KIMM EL, AQU ENE CURRENT GRADE: EFFECTIVE DATE
JOB TITLE: SUBJECT DEPARTMENT CLERI CURRENT STEP: 2 FOR GRADEISTEP
PREVIOUS CURRENT
TYPE OF CHANGE VALUE VALUE REASON FOR CHANGE
TRANSFER 0.00 36,034.70 MLIS STEP PER UNION CONTRACT
EMPLOYEE: - MCCOY, PATRICIAA CURRENT GRADE: EFFECTIVE DATE
JOB TITLE: BRANCH CLERK CURRENT STEP: 9 FOR GRADEISTEP
PREVIOUS CURRENT
TYPE OF CHANGE VALUE VALUE REASON FOR CHANGE
TRANSFER 47,908.12 47,908.12 TRANSFER
EMPLOYEE: NEWSOM, A CURRENT GRADE: EFFECTIVE DATE
JOB TITLE: LIBRARY CURRENT STEP: 7 FOR GRADEISTEP
. PREVIOUS CURRENT
TYPE OF CHANGE VALUE VALUE REASON FOR CHANGE
TRANSFER 58,731.92 58,731.92 TRANSFER
EMPLOYEE: RENDER. ROBERT CURRENT GRADE: - EFFECTIVE DATE
JOB TITLE: LIBRARY EM PH CURRENT STEP: 3 FOR GRADEISTEP
PREVIOUS CURRENT
TYPE OF CHANGE VALUE VALUE REASON FOR CHANGE

 

 

MASTER CHANGE MISC 0.00 26.25 TRANSFER

1067

CLEVELAND PUBLIC LIBRARY
NEW HIRE REPORT
FROM 510112019 TO 513112019

EMPLOYEE: CARR, MELISSA CURRENT GRADE: HIRE DATE: 511212019

JOB TITLE: LIBRARY ASST SUBSTITUTE CURRENT STEP: 1 I

LOCATION: BRANCH SUBSTITUTES SALARY: 22.961.12 HOURLY RATE: 24.03
EMPLOYEE: HARRIS, BRIAN CURRENT GRADE: HIRE DATE: 512612019

JOB TITLE: PAGE CURRENT STEP: 1

LOCATION: MARTIN LUTHER KING SALARY: 0.00 HOURLY RATE: 10.46
EMPLOYEE: HARRISON, MESSIAH CURRENT GRADE: HIRE DATE: 512812019

JOB TITLE: PAGE CURRENT STEP: 1

LOCATION: WEST PARK SALARY: 0.00 HOURLY RATE: 10.46
EMPLOYEE: JIRA, JOSEPH CURRENT GRADE: HIRE DATE: 511212019

JOB TITLE: PAGE CURRENT STEP: 1

LOCATION: SHELF PAGES SALARY: 0.00 HOURLY RATE: 10.46
EMPLOYEE: JOHNSON, ALTHEA CURRENT GRADE: HIRE DATE: 511212019

JOB TITLE: DIRECTOR OF HUMAN RESOURCES CURRENT STEP: 7

LOCATION: HUMAN RESOURCES SALARY: 105.350.45 HOURLY RATE: 54.03
EMPLOYEE: MON DOKI LARISSE CURRENT GRADE: HIRE DATE: 511212019

JOB TITLE: LIBRARY EMPH CURRENT STEP: 1

LOCATION: MT PLEASANT SALARY: 35,337.38 HOURLY RATE: 24.27
EMPLOYEE: MOORE, CLARKE CURRENT GRADE: HIRE DATE: 512612019

JOB TITLE: PAGE CURRENT STEP: 1

LOCATION: MEMORIAL NOTTINGHAM SALARY: 0.00 HOURLY RATE: 10.46

. EMPLOYEE: NDUKWE, MASSEY CURRENT GRADE: HIRE DATE: 511212019

JOB TITLE: PAGE CURRENT STEP: 1

LOCATION: SHELF PAGES SALARY: 0.00 HOURLY RATE: 10.46
EMPLOYEE: STEPHENS, MARQUESA CURRENT GRADE: HIRE DATE: 511212019

JOB TITLE: SVC OFFICEI CURRENT STEP: 1

LOCATION: SECURITY SALARY: 28,254.98 HOURLY RATE: 19.41

1068

 

CLEVELAND PUBLIC LIBRARY REPORT 
Hurhan Resources Committee Report
Meeting Date:
Report Period: May 2019
Report on Paid Sick Time Used by the Month
Hours Used Per Each Two Pay Periods
MONTH 2018 2019 2019
SICK LEAVE SICK LEAVE TOTAL HOURS
HOURS USED HOURS USED

 

 

 

February

4368.48

3,853.94

91,826.85

 

 

 
 

 

April

3899.74

3,867.74

91,763.15

 

 

 

June

53135.95"

 

 

 

 

 

 

December

4835.04

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

*Covers three pay dates

 

1069

CLEVELAND PUBLIC LIBRARY REPORTI
MAY 1, 2019 - MAY 31, 2019
EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS (EEO-4) REPORT
FULLIPART-TIME EMPLOYEES
Human Resources Committee Report

 

 

 

 

June I, 2019
Totals Male Female
Job Category A 
Ottic ia ls/ Admin istrators Professionals Technicians . . Protective Service Para-Professiona Administrative Support 224 Skilled Craft 12 6 4 I I
Service Maintenance Grand Total 628 I34 138 Total Column B: White C=Block D=Hispanic E=AslanIPaciIic

G=White H=Block I=Hispanic 

American lndiaanIaskan Native HAWAII

K=Amerlcan Indiaanlaskan Natlve Two or more races

1070

Insurance Report

REPORTJ

for the Month of May 2019

Human Resources Committee Report

Staff Enrollments-Health Care/Dental

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Single Family Total
Basic 5 3 8
Essential 56 1 3 69
Standard 235 1 36 371
Cobra 1 1
Total MMO 449
Dental Insurance 292 181 473
Vision Employee 265
Vision Children 40
Vision Spouse 50
Vision Family 74
. Total Vision 429
Workers' Compensation
- Lost Time Report
Total days missed 
Classification Dept/Location Date of Injury during report month
0

 

 

1071

CLEVELAND PUBLIC LIBRARY
Policy on internet and Computer Use

Computer Use

?Computer use" shall include using library computers for any purpose, including without limitation,
word processing purposes, or for Internet and electronic mail use. Use of Library computers is
subject to the Library's Policy on Patron Conduct.

1. A patron must have an unexpired library card to use the public computers managed by the
Library' 3 reservation software.

2. Persons using the computers, and accompanied by children six and under, may not leave the
children unattended.

3. The Library employs reservation software to maximize the number of patrons who are able to
access the Library?s public computers. The Library reserves the right to limit the amount of time
an individual user can devote to a single computer session The last computer session of the day
ends 10 minutes before the Library closes. Patrons must not attempt to disable or circumvent the
Library?s reservation software.

4. Headphones are permitted, but volume must be kept low to not disturb others.

5. Only two persons may share a single workstation. Staff, in their discretion, may approve or
disapprove requests for study group accommodations.

6. Workstations equipped with adaptive software and hardware such as ZoomText, JAWS and
Braille printers may be used only by patrons in need of adaptive technology.

7. Patrons may not use library computers for any activity that is patently offensive, intrusive,
disruptive, harassing, or creates an intimidating or hostile environment to staff andfor to other
patrons.

8. There is a charge for printing from the Library?s computers. Printing costs are listed in the
Fines and Fees Schedule. Printing must be completed and collected before the Library
closes.

9. Staff are unable to recover data once a computer session ends. To save a document, the patron 
must copy it to hisfher personal media or online data storage during the computer session. The
Library is not responsible for time or data lost due to computer failure or failure to save data

during a computer session.

10. The Library is not responsible for any loss or liability that may occur as a result of the
disclosure of financial or other personal information over the Library?s public computer
services, including Internet and electronic mail use. Users should be aware that use of public
computers is not a private or secure medium, and that third parties may be able to obtain
information regarding user?s activities. Users should also be aware that Library staff may
monitor use of the computers for the limited purpose of ensuring compliance with this Policy,
and hereby consent to such monitoring. .

?i1. Patrons may not utilize the Library?s computers in violation of any local, state, or federal
ordinances, regulations, or laws, including copyright laws. Users are prohibited from disclosing
confidential information, harming CLEVNET networks or other networks on the internet or other

12.

13.

14.

15.

1072

user accounts, invasions of privacy, engaging in spamming, unsolicited advertising, network
reconnaissance, or denial of service attacks. Users engaged in illegal activities involving library
computers may be subject to prosecution.

Users may be liable for alterations or damage they cause to library hardware or software,
including knowingly uploading or installing worms, viruses, or Trojan horses, or transmitting
viruses that affect other users? accounts or the Library?s systems. Patrons should report any
computer problems to Library staff and must not attempt maintenance on Library computers,
including unplugging, disconnecting, powering on, powering off, andfor detaching anyPC
hardware or components. 

Users must not make any attempt to access or modify passwords or data belonging to others, or
seek unauthorized access to the Library?s or any other computer system. Users are prohibited
from using remote administration tools or root kits, for purposes other than to access a user?s
own personal computer.

Whether or not they are in use, the Library reserves the right to designate computers for the
exclusive use of children aged 17 and under and their accompanying caregivers.

By 'using a library computer, the user agrees to conform to all regulations contained in this
Policy. All users of library computers agree to indemnify and hold the Library harmless for any
claims, losses, damages, .obligations,.or liabilities arising out of the use of the Library?s
computers. The Library reserves the right to terminate a computer session andior suspend
library privileges of anyone who violates the Library's computer use policies withoutnotice.

Internet Use: Generally

I.

In keeping with the Cleveland Public Library?s objective to make accessible the broadest range of
information in a variety of formats, the Library provides public access to the Internet. The Internet

enables the Library to provide information beyond the con?nes of its own collection. However,

the Library cannot control and is not responsible for the content of information obtained through
the Internet, and does not warrant that information accessed through the Internet is accurate,
reliable, legal or complete.

Parents, guardians and caregivers are encouraged to work with their children to develop
acceptable rules of Internet use. It is their responsibility to set family standards and guidelines
and to decide which library resources and Internet websites or resources are appropriate for their
children. Library staff are available to assist parents and their children with using the Internet and
to help identify'appropriate Internet sites. However, Library staff are not reSponsible for
monitoring information accessed by children from the Internet, and the Library will not act in loco
parentis nor assume the functions of a parent?s or legal guardian?s authority with regard to the
behavior of their children in the Library.

Patrons may not send, receive, print, disseminate, or display text or graphics which may be
construed as obscene or "harmful tojuveniles? under Chapter 2907 of the Ohio Revised Code.

For approval by the Board ofLibrary Trustees June 18, 2019; effective July 1, 2019

CIRCULATION
ACTIVITY
Main Library
Branches
Mobile Units
Library for the Blind
OLBPD BARD
eMedia

TOTAL CIRCU LATION

- ELECTRONIC MEDIA
CIRCULATION
eBook
eAudiobook
eMusic
eVideo
eMagazines

TOTAL 

COMPUTER
USAGE
Main Library
Branches

TOTAL USAGE

WiFi Hotspot Checkouts

WAL K-IN
COUNT

Main Library
Branches

TOTAL VISITS

Number of.
Computers
107 56 minutes
590 42 minutes

ACTIVITY REPORT FOR MAY 2019

Total

CLEVELAND PUBLIC LIBRARY

Average Hourly

2019 2018 2019 2018

143,544
257,021
2,549
40,478
11,330
51,390

506,312

Total

116,238 690 559
21 1,410

1,169 957
4,471

40,842
15,997
37,847

426,805

- Year-to-Date

2019 2018 2019 2018

25,649
17,908
4,555
1,642
1,636 

51,390

697

Total
2019
602

Total

21,453
14,354

37, 847

Average
Sessions 2019 2018

122,540
85,600
280 23,474
474 4,344
1,286 8,579

244,537

108,227
69,265
1,660
2,891
6,863

188,906
Number of Sessions

33,144
266,074

299,218

39,346
285,078

324,424

Year-to-Date
2019
3,1 01

Average Hourly

2019 2018 2019 2018

36,153
159,793

195,946

33,180 174 160
161,225 727 730

194,405

Yea r-to-Date

2019 2018
699,758 548,784
1,204,064 1,004,133
15,259 18,742
195,998. 199,548
61 ,070 62,988
244,537 188,906

2,420,686 2,023,101

YTD
GainlLoss
13.2%
23.6%
1314.1 
50.3%
25.0%

29.4%

Hours in Use
2019 2018
34,333 34,388
212,516 194,809

246,849 229,197

Sessions less than 5 minutes exluded. Hours in use does not include grace periods computers are held for patrons.

Yea r-to-Date
2019 2018
162,486 159,574
789,433 789,381

951,919 948,955

YTD
GainlLoss
27.5%
19.9%
-18.6%
-1 

29.4%

20%

Included in circulation activity

YTD
GainILoss

9.1%

7.7%

YTD
GainlLoss

2%
0%

0.3%

REPORT 

2018 attendance and circulation totals reflect branch closures throughout the year due to Revitalization Project. Affected branches include Addison, Carnegie West, Collinwood, Fulton, 
Harvard Lee, Jefferson, Langston Hughes, Lorain and South.

Page 1

1073

CLEVELAND PUBLIC LIBRARY
BRANCH TOTAL CIRCULATION FOR MAY 2019

a 9

Sent from Total Direct Sen-tto Other Total

C_Branci1 Other Sent trom Other Circulation CLEVNET - Circulation
Irculatlon Branches Mam CLENVET stems 

Branch Systems 
Addison 4,250 1,715 753 1,320 8,038 564 8,602
Brooklyn 2,397 1 ,227 586 585 4,795 454 5,249
Carnegie West I 5,583 1,803 1,711 1,618 10,715 1,376 12,091
Collinwood 3,764 1,441 447 . 1,731 7,383 567 7,950
East 13151: 2,061 669 286 445 3,461 385 . 3,846
Eastman 8,553 2,567 1,159 1,852 14,131 2,041 16,172
Fleet . 6,027 1,780 842 1,491 10,140 686 10,826
Fulton 4,979 2,070 521 997 8,567 863 9,430
Garden Valley 2,074 648 203 339 3,264 239 3,503
Glenville 4,324 1 ,458 485 1,459 7,726 531 8,257
Harvard-Lee 3,271 972 541 919 5,703 875 6,578
Hough 4,262 1,035 395 933 6,625. 423 7,048
Jefferson 3,012 1,247 817 1,020 6,096 679 6,775
Langston Hughes 3,362 1,876 481 1,101 6,820 521 7,341
Lorain 4,419 1,306 506 769 7,000 581 7,581
Martin Luther King, Jr. 2,987 993 578 1,461 6,019 450 6,469
Memorial-Nottingham 4,920 1,241 1,119 2,688 9,968 1,146 11,114
Mt. Pleasant 2,344 1,012 377 651 4,384 319 4,703
Rice . . 6,439 1,359 1,021 1,899 10,718 956 11,674
Rockport 11,553 2,085 1,612 2,477 17,727 1,755 19,482
South 7,057 1,408 498 666 9,629 1,175 10,804
South Brooklyn 9,721 1,554 1 ,734 2,639 15,648 1 ,774 17,422
Sterling 3,846 998 545 646 6,035 450 6,485
Union 2,826 1,053 322 618 4,819 467 5,286
Walz 7,418 2,037 1,051 2,029 12,535 1,020 13,555
West Park 8,228 2,169 3,062 4,729 18,188 2,019 20,207
Woodland 5,312 1,587 499 618 8,016 555 8,571

TOTAL 134,989 39,310 22,151 37,700 234,150 22,871 257,021
2018 attendance and circulation totals re?ect branch closures throughout the year due to Re?talization Project. Affected branches include Addison, Carnegie
West, Collinwood, Fulton, Glenviile, Harvard Lee, Jefferson, Langston Hughes, Lorain and South.

Page 2

1074

CLEVELAND PUBLIC LIBRARY
BRANCH TOTAL CIRCULATION COMPARATIVE FOR MAY 2019

Total Year-to-Date YTD YTD
BRANCH 2019 2018 2019 2018 Gaim'Loss 
Addison 8,602 8,241 41,084 37,297 3,787 10%
Brooklyn 5,249 4,364 23,257 19,741 3,516 18%
Carnegie West 12,091 11,769 55,729 51,995 3,734 7%
Collinwood 7,950 5,124 34,277 27,743- 6,534 24%
East 13151: 3,846 - 4,534 18,655 19,246 -591 
Eastman 16,172 16,212 78,518 72,842 5,676 8%
Fleet 10,826 10,821 49,900 49,776 124 0%
Fulton 9,430 9,598 42,188 42,744 -556 
Garden Valley 3,503 3,283 17,176 14,868 2,308 16%
Glenville 8,257 3,126 38,304 9,849 28,455 289%
Harvard-Lee 6,578 926 30,769 24,660 6,109 25%
Hough - - 7,048 5,263 33,014 24,442 8,572 35%
Jefferson . 6,775 1 ,165 32,695 21 .931 10,764 49%
Langston Hughes 7,341 6,592 35,118 31,701 3,417 11%
Lorain 7,581 5,254 33,039 16,628 16,411 99%
Martin Luther King, Jr. . 6,469 5,212 30,653 25,091 5,562 22%
Memorial-Nottingham 1 1 ,1 14 1 1,711 56,525 54,922 1 ,603 3%
Mt. Pleasant 4,703 3,660 21,207 17,610 3,597 20%
Rice 11,674 9,383 57,446 43,619 13,827 32%
Rockport 19,482 16,758 90,451 74,725 15,726 21%
South 10,804 8,203 50,923 36,840 14,083 38%
South Brooklyn 17,422 15,424 78,669 73,176 5,493 8%
Sterling. 6,485 4,447 28,278 20,255 8,023 40%
Union 5,286 3,913 25,699 18,583 7,116 38%
Walz 13,555 12,189 64,485 58,545 5,940 10%
West Park 20,207 17,397 94,999 83,265 1 1 ,734 14%
Woodland 8,571 6,841 41,006 32,039 . 8,967 28%
TOTAL 257,021 211,410 1,204,064 1,004,133 199,931 20%
2018 attendance and circulation totals re?ect branch closures throughout the year due to Revitalization Project Affected branches include Addison, Carnegie West,
Collinwood, Fulton, Glenville, Harvard Lee, Jefferson, Langston Hughes, Lorain and South.

Page 3

1075

CLEVELAND PUBLIC 
BRANCH ATTENDANCE MAY 2019

Total Year-to-Date YTD YTD
BRANCH 2019 2018 2019 2018 Gaim?Loss 
Addison 4,233 4,485 19,973 21,940 -1,967 
Brooklyn 3,122 2,784 - 15,422 14,144 1,278 9%
Carnegie West 6,929 8,698 37,625 42,221 -4,596 -11%
Coilinwood 3,990 4,622 19,365 24,077 -4,712 ?20%
East 131st 6,878 8,480 32,356 37,662 ?5,306 -14%
Eastman 8,148 8,371 41,101 44,439 -3,338 
Fleet 7,587 7,802 36,481 39,565 -3,084 
Fulton 5,525 6,485 26,440 31,899 -5,459 -17%
Garden Valley 4,160 4,053 19,637 1 18,008 1,629 . 9%
Glenville 4,117 3,084 21,270 8,879 12,391 I 140%
Harvard-Lee 5,859 0 29,286 23,198 6,088 26%
Hough 6,108 7,579 29,464 33,166 -3,702 -11%
Jefferson 4,889 0 22,227 14,325 7,902 55%
Langston Hughes 5,368 6,168 26,287 30,009 ?3,722 ?12%
Lorain 5,034 4,304 23,627 13,336 10,291 77%
Martin Luther King, Jr. 5,415 5,523 24,288 25,090 ?802 
Memorial-Nottingham 4,941 5,500 23,300 21,076 2,224 1 1%
Mt. Pleasant 3,021 3,805 14,754 16,954 -2,200 . -13%
Rice 9,660 9,458 47,822 46,146 1,676 4%
Rockport 7,329 6,572 34,733 33,166 1,567 5%
South 6,549 5,274 24,963 23,701 1,262 5%
South Brooklyn 10,508 12,145 53,748 49,939 3,809 8%
Sterling . 7,995 6,594 37,158 33,813 3,345 10%
Union . 7,135 6,803 30,181 29,982 199 1%
Walz* 1,514 7,372 25,456 37,330 -11,874 -32%
West Park 6,986 8,036 37,584 37,906 -322 
Woodland 6,793 7,228 34,885 37,410 -2,525 
TOTAL 159,793 161,225 789,433 789,381 52 0%
*Walz equipment malfunction in May.
2018 attendance and circulation totals reflect branch closures throughout the year due to Revitalization Project. Affected branches include Addison, Carnegie West,
Collinwood, Fulton, Glenville, Harvard Lee, Jefferson, Langston Hughes, Lorain and South.

Page 4

1076



Branch
West Park
Rockport
South Brooklyn
Eastman
Walz
Carnegie West
Rice
Memorial-Nottingham
Fieet
South
Fulton
Addison
Woodland
Glenville
Collinwood
Lorain
Langston Hughes
Hough
Jefferson
Harvard-Lee
Sterling
Martin Luther King, Jr.
Union -
Brooklyn
Mt. Pleasant
East 131st
Garden Valley

Total Circulation

20,207
19,482
17,422
16,172
13,555
12,091
1 1,674
1 1 ,1 14
10,826
10,804
9,430
8,602
8,571
8,257
7,950
7,581
7,341
7,048
6,775
6,578
6,485
6,469
5,286
5,249
4,703
3,846
3,503
257,021

*Walz equipment malfunction in May.

2018 attendance and circuiation totals re?ect branch closures throughout the year due to Revitalization Project. Affected
branches include Addison, Carnegie West, Coilinwood, Fulton, Glenville, Harvard Lee, Jefferson, Langston Hughes,

Lorain and South.

CLEVELAND PUBLIC LIBRARY
BRANCH RANKINGS MAY 2019

- Branch

South Brooklyn
Rice

Eastman

Sterling

Fleet

Rockport

Union

West Park
Carnegie West.
East 131st
Woodland

South

Hough
Harvard-Lee
Fulton 

Martin Luther King, Jr.
Langston Hughes
Lorain
Memorial-Nottingham
Jefferson
Addison

Garden Valley
Glenviile
Coilinwood
Brooklyn

Mt. Pleasant
Walz*

Page 5

Attendance

1 0,508
9,660
8,148
7,995
7,587
7,329
7,135
6,986
6,929
6,878
6,793
6,549
6,108
5,859
5,525
5,415
5,368
5,034
4,941
4,889
4,233
4,160
4,1 17
3,990
3,122
3,021
1 ,514

1 59,793

Branch
1 South Brooklyn
2 West Park
3 Fleet"
4 Eastman
5 Rockport
a Fulton
7 Rice
8 Memorial-Nottingham
9 Harvard?Lee
1o Walz
11 Coilinwood
12 Langston Hughes
13 Glenvilie
14 Addison
15 East 131st
16 Mt. Pleasant
17 Lorain
18 Martin Luther King, Jr.
19 Carnegie West
20 Union
21 Sterling
22 Woodland
23 South
24 Hough
25 Brooklyn
26 Jefferson
27 Garden Valley
28 Broadway"

Population
2010
32,043
27,814
26,727
23,674
19,896
1 9,647
19,462
19,271
17,655
16,063
14,769
14,439
14,006
1 3,603
13,025
12,792
12,588
1 2,392
10,487
8,41 6
8,267
7,946
6,325
5,667
5,524
3,515
2,310

388,323

*Broadway and Fleet service areas merged

2000
34,217
29,398
34,598
25,873
21 ,467
22,575
25,893
22,598
21 ,246
18,497
19,377
21 ,224
20,302
19,263
18,001
17,155
14,589
15,483
11,716
12,603

8,712
7,213
7,729
7,845
6,430
3,987
3,220
1 .966
473,177

Prepared By: Northern Ohio Data and Information Service - NODIS,
Maxine Goodman Levine College of Urban Affairs, Cleveland State

University

1077

CLEVELAND PUBLIC LIBRARY
ACTIVITY REPORT FOR MAY 2019

OTHER TRANSACTIONS Total
Loans" to: 2019 2018
CLEVNET 73,325 45,573
Other Libraries 317 463
TOTAL 73,642 46,036
*Totals included in Main Library and Branch circulation counts

ANALYSIS OF MAIN LIBRARY Total
REFERENCE QUESTION LOAD 2019 2018
Projected . 10,693 14,929
Mail and Email Reference 656 327
lnterlibrary Loan Requests 597 . 930
TOTAL 11,946 16,186

CHANGES IN PERMANENT Total

COLLECTION 2019 2018

New Titles Added 6,176 3,921
Total Items Added 24,901 17,450

HOURS OPEN Total
2019 2018
Main Library 208 . 208
Branches 5,937 5,965

OHIO BRAILLE AUDIO Total

READING DOWN LOAD (BARB) 2019 2018
Downloads 11,330 15,997
Users 640 646

WIRELESS SESSIONS Total
2019 2018
TOTAL SESSIONS 67,052 201 ,951

Year-to-Date
2019 2018
364,160 279,997
2,334 2,436
366,494 282,433

Yea r-to-Date
2019 2018
66,047 77,243

3,1 1 1 1,503
4,374 5,132
73,532 83,878

Year-to-Date
2019 2018
27,636 20,972

108,212 97,967

Year-to-Date
2019 201 8
1,008 1,008
28,810 28,863

Year-to-Date
2019 2018
61 ,070 62,986

3,266 3,257

Year-to-Date
2019 I 2018

306,332 979,679

YTD
GainILoss
30%

30%

YTD
GainlLoss
-14%
107%

-1 5%
-12%

YTD
GainlLoss
32%
10%

YTD
GainlLoss
0%

0%

YTD
GainlLoss
Included in circulation activity
0%

YTD
GainlLoss
-69%

New wi? session tracking program implemented in August 2018. Complete datasets unavailable at time of reporting.

STREAMING MEDIA Total
Songs Users
15348 310

Page 6

Year-to-Date
Songs Users
83371 1 306

1078

1079

POLICY ON PUBLIC PARTICIPATION

The Board of Trustees of the Cleveland Public Library (the ?Board?) welcomes public
input in its deliberations and recognizes both the importance of public comment on issues
before the Board and the ability of members of the community to express their views on
matters of interest to the Library.

The Board is committed to conducting its meetings in a civil, orderly, ef?cient, and
productive manner designed to allow the Board?s regular. agenda to be completed in a
reasonable period of time while allowing a fair and adequate opportunity for public input
to be considered. Accordingly, public participation at regular Board meetings will
be governed by the following principles:

Public participation at Board meetings is limited to the public comment portions of
the meetings as indicated in the agenda. At all other times during a Board meeting,
the audience will not be recognized by the Board unless speci?cally requested to
do so by the President of the Board or other presiding officer.

Persons wishing to address the Board must be physically present and register their
names and topic on the sign-in sheet, which will be provided at the meetings.
Speakers must ?ll out the sign-in sheet before they will be recognized.

Each person addressing the Board is limited. to three (3) minutes. This time limit
may be extended in the sole discretion of the President of the Board or other
presiding officer.

Persons addressing the Board are expected to obscure a level of civility and
decorum appropriate for a public meeting, and refrain from vulgar, profane, or
harassing remarks. The President of the Board or other presiding officer may
terminate any presentation deemed not to adhere to these standards.

Failure to adhere to these principles may result in removal from the meeting.

