THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
FACILITIES SPACE COMMITTEE
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES

DATE: Wednesday, March 14, 2018
TIME: 4:00 pm.
PLACE: MetroHealth Medical Center

K107, Business Services Building

COMMITTEE Mr. Monnolly, Ms. Dee, Mr. Silvers

TRUSTEES:

STAFF: M. Phillips, W. Jones, M. Stem, C. Richmond, Dr. Brandt, B. Boulanger, K. Dethloff
(ABSENT): Mr. McDonald, M. Schneider, A. Boutros, K. Botros

GUESTS: Cliff Kazmierczak, Marvin Daniels, Mark Bultman, Andreanna Sims, Sarah O?Keeffe

Mr. Monnolly called the regular meeting of the Facilities Space Committee to order at 4:10 pm. The
minutes are written in a format conforming to the printed meeting agenda for the convenience of
correlation, recognizing that some of the items were discussed out of sequence.

1. APPROVAL OF MINUTES DECEMBER 18, 2017 MEETING

The minutes of the December 18, 2017 Facilities and Space Committee were approved as
presented.

DISCUSSION ITEMS

Mr. Monnolly asked Dr. Boutros if the Facilities and Space Committee of the Board of
Trustees meetings going forward could be scheduled the Monday of the same week
preceding any Board of Trustees? meetings going forward to avoid any approval gaps.

A. Mr. Jones provided an update on the status of the Campus Transformation project to the
Board.

0 The parking garage is currently under construction, on budget and tracking completion

in September 0f2018.

0 Mr. Monnolly raised the question if epoxy concrete is used to help protect the concrete
against spalling due to the freezing weather. Mr. Jones indicated that several cold
weather techniques are being used to help in the pouring and curing of the concrete
including heating to protect it in freezing conditions.

0 Mr. Jones indicated that the Schematic Design Stage Phase has begun. The proposed
site plan concept will be a ?Hospital in a Park? which has gained recognition as the ?rst
of its kind. 

Page 1 of 3

Facilities Space Committee
March 14, 2018 Meeting Minutes
Page 2 of 3

B. Mr. Jones introduced Sarah O?Keeffe, Director, Sustainability. Ms. O?Keeffe provided an
update on the Sustainability project to the Board.

I MetroHealth joined Practice Greenhealth, the national sustainable healthcare
membership group for the industry.

I ?Sustainable Healthcare? is a business approach that uses environmental stewardship as
a method for increasing operational ef?ciency while improving the health of patients,
staff and the community.

I Full life~cycle impacts and long-term costs of purchased products and services, such as
energy use, chemical content, and disposal, will be increasingly considered in sourcing
decisions.

I The new hospital campus will include energy saving systems, healthy and responsibly
sourced building materials, an active green space and community-based thinking and
design.

- Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Silver is the current
target for a green building certi?cation of the hOSpital project.

I MetroHealth employees are intentionally engaged to participate in sustainability
through behavior-changing initiatives such as reducing land?ll waste, commuting via
healthier modes of transportation (carpooling, public transit, biking, walking), etc.

C. Ms. Dethloff provided an update on the status of the Facilities Report to the Board.

I MetroHealth successfully managed a main campus power outage due to failed CEI
hardware that had a negative impact on computer hardware and CT scanners; there was
no reported harm to patients, visitors or staff. The electrical phasing issue was ?nally
resolved in mid-December with a planned replacement of electrical sub?station
components on the main campus.

I On March lst, The W. 150 Surgery Center was taken out of service for two days when
a neighbor?s tree downed multiple CEI utility poles, cutting power to the center and
hundreds in the area. Patients were rescheduled elsewhere in the system while repairs
were made before reopening on March 6. The Surgery Center also experienced a ?ood
in January, due to a failure of an original solder joint in the heating system, impacting
the OR corridor and adjacent Spaces. FM, OR staff and Infection Prevention mitigated
the situation with no disruption to operations.

I Two conditions of low voltage from CEI occurred to the east side of MHMC resulting
in elevator entrapments and many pieces of equipment failing, boilers, package
AC units, the Building Automation System.

I The suppression system froze at the Zubizarreta House in January'and ruptured. The
building was impacted for a week while repairs were made.

I The Life Safety Audit conducted at all our facilities was completed and Facilities
Management staff is working to address identi?ed issues.

CONSENT ITEMS
A. Recommendation to the President and CEO of The MetroHealth System to approve the
engagement of In?nity Construction Company as the System's Construction Manager at

Risk for the Main Campus Inpatient Behavioral Health Unit.

The Committee approved the recommendation for full Board action.

Facilities Space Committee
March 14, 2018 Meeting Minutes
Page 3 of 3

B. Recommendation to the President and CEO of The MetroHealth System to approve the
Pre-Authorized Quali?ed Professional Firms consistent with System Policy i-88.

The Committee approved the recommendation for full Board action.

IV. NON-CON SENT ACTION ITEMS

None

Upon unanimous roll call vote, the Committee went into Executive Session to discuss trade secrets and
real estate matters.

At the end of the executive session, there being no ?thher business to come before the Committee, the
meeting was adjourned at 5:35 pm.

  

Walter B. Jones, Jr.
Senior Vice President, Campus Transformation

