Summit County Opiate Task Force
Key Stakeholders Annual Meeting
Summit County Public Health Auditorium
1867 W. Market St. Suite A, Akron

MEETING NOTES 3/8/2017
ATTENDEES:
82 Community Stakeholders were in attendance.
MEETING MATERIALS:
The following meeting materials were distributed: Agenda, Meeting Notes from December 14, 2016,
Data Dashboard Handouts, Dreamland Event Schedule, Summit County Opiate Task Force 2017-18
Strategic Plan – Draft, Addiction Resource Guide.
WELCOME AND INTRODUCTIONS:
Jerry Craig, Executive Director of the County of Summit ADM Board welcomed all participants, and
outlined the agenda.
PRESENTATION OF PSAs:
Mr. Craig introduced Zach Miley, Prevention Specialist at Community Health Center and co-chair of
the Youth subcommittee. Mr. Miley spoke about the opiate public service announcements (PSAs)
that 18 members of Teen Institute recently produced about the dangers of opiate abuse. Summa
Health donated space for approximately 160 people to attend a red carpet screening. Three of the
ten PSAs titled, “Abuse Signs – How to Recognize Addition”, “Pain Killers”, and “Hey You #2” were
presented. Advertising time was purchased through grant money for the PSAs to be shown at all
Cinemark locations in Akron prior to each featured movie. The PSAs have also been published on
YouTube and can be found by searching: “We Are the Future of Summit County”. Noah P. and Ben K.
spoke about the PSA, “Abuse Signs – How to Recognize Addiction”. It was noted that the Crisis Text
Line number is at the end of each PSA. The group expressed their appreciation to Community Health
Center, Ohio Guidestone, University of Akron, Summa and the ADM Board for supporting this effort.
STRATEGIC PLANNING REPORT: Mr. Craig indicated that approximately 40 people attended a
Summit County Opiate Task Force Strategic Planning session on February 23, 2017. A survey on
priorities that was emailed to the full Opiate Task Force was incorporated into the session as a
springboard for planning. A draft Strategic Planning document was distributed.
•

Healthcare: Dr. Douglas Smith, Chief Clinical Officer of the ADM Board said there was a
mix of long-time and new members of the Healthcare subcommittee that helped with
the planning process. The main goal was to create a seamless path to receive care and
residential services. They are working with drug representatives to develop electronic
and physical methods to get into clinics to increase awareness and promote support for
caregiver fatigue. The group is also exploring the need for a full services campus. Five of
the ten detox beds have now been added. Currently there is no wait.

Mission: The Summit County Opiate Task Force is a group of key individuals and organizations committed to
reducing the tragic consequences of opiate abuse in Summit County through education, collaboration, and the wise
use of available resources.

 •

Criminal Justice: Jack Davis, City of Cuyahoga Falls Chief of Police, reported that the
goals of the Criminal Justice subcommittee are:
o To develop more connections and partner with treatment facilities. They plan to
expand meetings and increase involvement.
o Continue to work on jail treatment programs, which is a very involved problem.

•

Public Awareness: Lucky Tisch, Communications & Community Outreach Coordinator
with the County of Summit ADM Board, indicated the Public Awareness committee set
two main priorities, including:
o Educating the public to increase the public’s understanding of where to go for
help. The hope is to get more businesses involved and to identify where
businesses are already meeting, such as the Chamber of Commerce.
o A second goal is to collect more evidence-based information to decrease the
stigma around addiction.

•

Youth: Zach Miley, co-chair of the Youth subcommittee indicated the goal of the Youth
subcommittee is to increase education outreach in the community and in educational
settings. There is also a goal of increasing youth involvement in the Opiate Task Force.
Mr. Craig announced an Opiate Task Force Youth subcommittee meeting has been
scheduled from 3:00-4:30 pm on March 27, 2017. Everyone, including youth, is invited to
attend.

•

Families: Michael Cohen, chair of the Families subcommittee, indicated the
subcommittee is going to address stigma with a consistent message and understanding
of terminology. Funding is needed to educate families to reduce stigma, strengthen
support networks for treatment resources and where to go for treatment. It was
reiterated that a consistent message and education is needed.

•

Policy-Advocacy: Leah Jones from Senator Sherrod Brown’s office addressed the three
goals of the Policy & Advocacy subcommittee, including:
o Increasing the use of evidence-based practices, QRT, and transitional housing. To
accomplish this, there will need to be increased data collection and dissemination
for best practices and funding to further utilize best practices.
o Another goal is to increase support by legislative representatives on the Opiate
Task Force.
o The third goal is to implement a plan on effective approaches for legislation. Mr.
Craig added that legislation that conforms to the needs of our community is
needed. The joint Medicaid oversight committee is open to considering funding
for the Opiate Task Force. A team will be put together to offer testimony on
March 14th or March 21st. Mr. Craig and Ms. Jones expressed their appreciation for
everyone’s efforts as we continue to battle this epidemic.

DATA DASHBOARD: Eric Hutzell, Research and Quality Improvement Coordinator for the County of
Summit ADM Board presented the findings of the March 8, 2017 Data Dashboard.
• New Dashboard items include the ADM Addiction Help Line and Quick Response Team (QRT) data.

Mission: The Summit County Opiate Task Force is a group of key individuals and organizations committed to
reducing the tragic consequences of opiate abuse in Summit County through education, collaboration, and the wise
use of available resources.

 •
•
•

•
•
•

•

Emergency Room visits for Drug Overdoses show there were 235 visits in 2016. Preliminary
data from the Medical Examiner’s office was reviewed; however they are 4-6 months behind.
Official Drug Overdose Deaths for 2016 show 101 deaths resulted from Fentanyl, 86 from
Opiates, 48 from Heroin, and 28 from Carfentanil.
Data of Summit County Opiate Overdoses by Fire and Police Department Responses show
there were 858 overdoses with 348 Naloxone reversals reported by 12 participating police
and fire agencies in quarter two of 2016. Quarter three of 2016 shows 313 overdoses with 85
Naloxone reversals from five reporting agencies. Quarter four of 2016 shows 247 overdoses
and 385 reversals with data from seven police and fire agencies reporting.
Residential and Detox wait times have gone down significantly from January through March
2017. Residential wait times are 26 days for females and 28 days for males, as opposed to 51
days in 2016. There is currently no waitlist for detox.
ADM Addiction Helpline received 326 calls with 133 appointments set as of February 17, 2017.
Six providers are currently piloting the Helpline. The average wait for an appointment is 7.5
days. Last year the average wait for an assessment was 51 days.
In 2015, 524 received overdose education and 354 received a D.A.W.N. kit. In 2016, 808
received overdose education and 621 received a D.A.W.N. kit. These numbers do not include
Edwin Shaw. Mary Alice Sonnhalter, Manager of Community Relations, noted that
information about Project D.A.W.N. is on page 11 of the Addiction Resource Guide, which was
recently published as an insert in the March 2017 issue of Akron Life Magazine.
QRT implementation began on January 17, 2017 in the cities of Cuyahoga Falls, Green,
Tallmadge, Norton, Barberton, Stow and Akron. Cities with QRT represent about 80% of
overdoses that occurred in 2016.

GENERAL ANNOUNCMENTS & UPCOMING EVENTS:
• Speaker’s Bureau Training – Please contact Lucky Tisch (tischl@admboard.org or 330-7623500) if there are any events or groups that need a speaker.
• April 12th Sam Quinones Event
• Save the Date - May 9th - Preview of Generation Found documentary – Ms. Sonnhalter
encouraged everyone to attend this outreach event.
• May 20th ADM Recovery Challenge 5k
Committee Schedules:
• Healthcare Committee
• Criminal Justice Tuesday, May 9th, 2:30-4:00 pm at SC Juvenile Court
• Public Awareness
• Youth – Monday, March 27, 3:00-4:30 pm at the ADM Board
• Families – Tuesday, March 28th, 3p-4:30 pm at ADM Board
• Policy & Advocacy Committee- March 8th 3:00 pm at ADM Board
• Speakers’ Bureau Training – Tuesday, March 21, 4:00 pm at ADM Board
NEXT MEETING:
Wednesday, June 7, 2017 at 4:00 pm, in the Summit County Public Health Auditorium (1867 W.
Market St., Akron 44313)

Mission: The Summit County Opiate Task Force is a group of key individuals and organizations committed to
reducing the tragic consequences of opiate abuse in Summit County through education, collaboration, and the wise
use of available resources.

 