 

 

CUYAHOGA COUNTY LAND REUTILIZATION CORPORATION
MINUTES AND ACTIONS OF BOARD OF 

 

 

REGULAR QUARTERLY MEETING OF
September 28, 2018

 

LOCATION: Cuyahoga Land Bank
812 Huron Road, E., Conference Room 830
Cleveland, OH 44113
September 28, 2018; 10:00 AM. ET
PURPOSE: Regular quarterly meeting to consider the following business:
1. Call to order by the Chair. The regular quarterly meeting of the Cuyahoga County Land Reutilization Corporation

(the was held September 28, 2018 at 812 Huron Road, E., Suite 830, Cleveland, Ohio and called to order at 10:05
a.m. Chairman Anthony Brancatelli, Michael King, Representative of Cuyahoga County Council President Dan Brady, Mr.
Kenneth Surratt, Representative of County Executive Armand Budish, Mayor Michael Summers, Treasurer W. Christopher
Murray, Mr. Edward Rybka, Chief of Regional Development, City of Cleveland and Ms. April Urban were present and
constituted a quorum.

2. Approval of the Minutes of the June 29, 2018 regular quarterly meeting. The minutes of the June 29, 2018 meeting
were distributed. A motion for approval of the minutes was made by Mayor Summers, seconded by Mr. King, and were
approved by voice vote without objection.

3. :Stojjlr Reports:

0 President?s Report:

0 ?tus of Acaujsitions. Demolitions a_nd Renovations to Daie To date, the has acquired
10,436 properties, demolished 6,951 completed 82 in-house renovations, 76 of which have been
sold. The has transacted 1,697 homes through its deed-in-escrow program and direct sales.
It currently has 4,081 properties in its inventory. For the third quarter of 2018, the has
transferred 99 vacant lots under the Hardest Hit program to the City of Cleveland.

0 Litigation Update A Supreme Court action has been ?led naming the as a Defendant
challenging the BOR statutes. The is represented by Roetzel and Andress. The ?led
a declaratory judgment action against the City of Cleveland relating to wrongly assessed CDAQ
fees. The Board was also informed that the Oak Leadership litigation is still pending.

0 Legislation Legislative changes will be submitted to the Ohio legislature in an effort to create
efficiencies in the in the foreclosure and land banking legislation. The changes will be submitted to
the General Assembly at the beginning of 2019.

Contractor Update A year-to-date summary of demolition contractor and ?eld service contractor
expenditures was provided to the Board. The contract approval thresholds established by the
Board for ?eld service contractors are $500,000. Field service contractors: Al's Home Repair has
exceeded the $500,000 threshold and Beneficial Properties, Hooks Landscaping Snow Plowing,
LLC and CarTeCor Management will exceed the threshold limit by year?s end. The Board was made
aware of these vendors and their year?to?date payments. The demolition contractor threshold has
been set at $2 million. One contractor OBON, Inc. is close to the $2 million limit. The seeks
authorization from the Board to go over this limit with this contractor and possibly Vlora
Construction Corp. Without objection, the Board unanimously authorized the contract payments
over $2 million for these contractors and above field service vendors exceeding and approaching
the $500,000 threshold.

Mr. Nathan Kelly arrives at 10:33 am.

0 Strategic Plan and impact Study The is working with the Cobalt Group and Allegro Realty
on the strategic plan and Dynametrics on an impact study with the goal of releasing both reports
at the same time.

 

0 Mr. William Whitney presented the Report of Chief Operating Officer

0 County Demolition Program Update 
The is continuing to demolish properties under the second round of a $3 million allocation
by the County for demolition of properties owned by the The is performing
nuisance abatement demolitions for various municipalities under the County Demolition
Program. The County has informed the Board that the final earmark of funds for this program
are with County procurement.

Hardest Hit Funds Discussion and Update
The has been allocated $60 million through NIP funds for demolition of properties over a 4
to 5-year period. These funds must be spent by the summer of 2020. The is awaiting to
see if OHFA will reallocate any unspent funds from other land banks in January 2019.

0 Presentation of Finances 
The ?nancial statements dated August 2018 were distributed to the Board prior to the meeting
and discussed.

 

Mr. Whitney informed the Board that the received a good report on the Department of
Housing and Urban Development monitoring visit and that the is currently working with the
City of Cleveland to close out the last few remaining NSP2 projects.

4. Resolution 2018-1 Authorizing and Approving and Ratifying the Cuyahoga County Land Reutilization Corporation?s
Entering into Certain Contracts for Services in Connection with its Strategic Planning Process, an Evaluation of the
Community Impact Achieved by its Programming and the Relocation of its Main Office and Authorizing Related Matters.
There being no further discussion on the Resolution, Mayor Summers offered for consideration and adoption Resolution
2018-1. Treasurer Murray seconded the motion.

Resolution 2018-1 was unanimously adopted.

5. Resolution 2018-2 ?Approving Amendments to the Fiscal Year 2018 Budget of the Corporation. There being no further
discussion on the Resolution, Mayor Summers offered for consideration and adoption Resolution 2018-2. Treasurer Murray
seconded the motion.

Resolution 2018-2 was unanimously adopted.

6. Other Business The has published its Community Impact Report a copy of which was distributed to the Board
members. Ms. Urban congratulated the on its continued success in contracting with minority business and female
business entrepreneurs. Mr. Whitney informed the board that the proposed 2019 budget will be distributed to the board
by December 1, 2018.

7. Public Comment no public comment

8. Executive Session entered into at 11:25 am. by Motion of Nate Kelly seconded by Ken Surratt to discuss litigation.
Executive Session ended at 11:40 by motion of Nate Kelly and seconded by Mayor Summers.

9. Adjournment. There being no more business to come before the meeting, Nate Kelly moved that the meeting be

adjourned. The motion was seconded by Mayor Summers and the motion carried unanimously. The meeting was adjourned
at approximately 11:41 am.

I hereby certify that the minutes related to the Board of Directors? regular quarterly meeting of September 28, 2018 set
forth above are the minutes approved by the Board of Directors at their meeting of December 21, 2018.

 

Robert Rink, Secretary
Cuyahoga County Land Reutilization Corporation

