Page 1 of 3
1867 West Market Street, Suite B2
Akron, Ohio 44313-6914
330-762-3500
Fax: 330-252-3024
Ohio Relay: 800-750-0750
www.admboard.org

Recovery Starts Here
MEETING NOTICE
October 2, 2019
TO:

Committee Members: Lucas Blower, Elizabeth A. England, Russell T. Ham, Todd M. Ivan,
M.D., Joseph P. Saporito, John M. Williams, ex officio

CC:

Board of Directors; ADM Board Staff; Provider Directors; Other Interested Parties

FROM:

Todd M. Ivan, M.D, Committee Chair

SUBJECT:

ADM Board of Directors’ Assurance Committee Quarterly Meeting

MEETING DATE:

Wednesday, October 9, 2019

SCHEDULED TIME:

4:30 p.m.

MEETING LOCATION:

Dr. Bob Smith Conference Room
County of Summit ADM Board Offices
1867 West Market Street, Suite B2
Akron, OH 44313

AGENDA:
I.

Call Meeting to Order

II.

Review & Approve minutes from July 15, 2019

III.

Old Business
a. Update on medical marijuana

IV.

New Business
a. Review of Quarterly report of Major Unusual Incidents from ADM Board
(Pol. 2.1, Treatment of Constituents)
b. Residential Facility Oversight (Pol. 2.1, Treatment of Constituents)

V.

Comments from the Public

VI.

Adjournment

VII.

Next meeting: January 15, 2020

ADM Board Contract Provider Agencies
ADM Crisis Center ● Akron-UMADAOP ● Asian Services in Action ● The Blick Center ● CHC Addiction Services ● Catholic Charities ● Child Guidance & Family Solutions ● CHOICES
Social Center ● Coleman Behavioral Health ● Community Partnership of Summit County ● Community Support Services ● Greenleaf Family Center ● IBH Addiction Recovery Center ●
Minority Behavioral Health Group ● North Coast Community Homes ● Ohio Guidestone ● Oriana House ● Portage Path Behavioral Health ● Psycho-Diagnostic Clinic ● Shelter Care ●
Summit County Public Health ● Summit County Sheriff’s D.A.R.E. Program ● Summit Psychological Associates ● Tarry House ● VANTAGE Aging

 Page 2 of 3

County of Summit Alcohol, Drug Addiction and Mental Health Services Board

Assurance Committee Meeting
Minutes of July 15, 2019
DRAFT
Committee Members Present: Todd M. Ivan, M.D., Chair; Elizabeth A. England, John Williams,
Russell Ham
Committee Members Absent: Lucas M. Blower, Joseph P. Saporito
ADM Board Staff Present: Jerry Craig, Executive Director; Dr. Douglas Smith, Fran Rudell
Other Interested Parties Present: None
I.

Call to Order
Committee Chair Todd Ivan called the meeting to order at 4:30 p.m.

II.

Review/approve minutes
After review, a MOTION was made by John Williams; SECONDED by Russell Ham,
To approve the minutes of the April 15, 2019, meeting of the Assurance Committee.
VOTE: Yes – ALL

III.

Old Business
A.
Update on medical marijuana
Mr. Craig provided Program Update data on local medical marijuana situation. Members
discussed and requested information be provided to full Board at next regular Board meeting.
All information is available at https:/www.medicalmarijuana.ohio.gov/programupdate.
Dr. Ivan noted that all local adult hospitals have decided they will not permit their physicians
to obtain certification to recommend. There is a physician in Palliative Care at Akron
Children’s Hospital who is recommending medical marijuana for patients.
Discussion continued regarding concern of impact in the future. Mr. Craig indicated that
there has been discussion at the state level, and that it might be a discussion with other boards
in this region to produce regional public service announcements targeting young children,
teens and young adults.

IV.

New Business
A.
Review of Quarterly Report of Major Unusual Incidents (MUIs)
Committee observations:
• Not as extensive as previous quarter
• No reported suicides; half of discharges were relapse related; half were behavioral
• No administrative discharges from Raymar
Board staff is working with CHC Addiction Services to obtain more data from
Raymar. Focus on not just discharges, but providing alternate treatment settings

Page 1 of 2

Minutes of Assurance Committee
July 15, 2019

 Page 3 of 3

where client can start over, or can get started, possibly going back to agency where
interim services were received prior to residential.
Committee members discussed length of stay, discharge options and peer support for
those leaving on planned or unplanned discharge.
V.

Comments from the Public – None

VI.

Adjournment – With no additional business to come before the Committee, Dr. Ivan
declared the meeting adjourned at 5:15 p.m.

VII.

Next meeting: To be determined

Page 2 of 2

Minutes of Assurance Committee
July 15, 2019

 