The MetroHealth System
Board of Trustees
Community Engagement Committee
July 17, 2019
Present Committee Members:

John Hairston, Jr., Arlene Anderson

Other Trustees:

Tom McDonald

Advisory Committee Members:

Dr. Nathan Beachy, Linda Bluso, Gail Long, Rev. Max Rodas,
Tom McDonald, Jane Platten, Fran Dacek

Community Guest:

Sabrina Otis

Staff:

Jane Platten, Rita Andolsen, Karen Cook, Tony Minor

Guests:

Dr. Rita Horwitz, President & CEO, Better Health Partnerships
Dr. Thomas Love, Chief Data Scientist, Better Health Partnerships
Sara Hendrickson, Director, Community Trauma Institute
Tony Minor, Manager, Faith Community Outreach Initiative

The meeting was called to order by John Hairston, Jr. at 10:00 a.m.
(The minutes are written in a format conforming to the printed meeting agenda for the
convenience of correlation, recognizing that some of the items were discussed out of sequence.)
I.

Approval of Minutes – July 18, 2018
The minutes of the July 18, 2018 Community Engagement Committee meeting were
approved as presented.

II.

Information Items:
1. Health Disparities Data Report: Improving Health & Reducing Disparities
Dr. Thomas Love presented “Benchmarking MetroHealth System Performance using
Better Health Partnerships Regional Data”. Better Health Partnerships (BHP) was
established in 2007 and has 2,000 primary care members and 12 health systems who
share data and best practices to advance improvements in health, health value and
equity. Dr. Love illustrated three examples of improved outcomes for MetroHealth
patients, in the areas of hypertension control, diabetes care and outcomes, and
colorectal cancer screening. Dr. Rita Horwitz discussed BHP’s role in three
community-based partnership initiatives to improve health and reduce disparities:

 (1) partnership with United Way’s 211, Care Alliance, MetroHealth and Rainbow
Babies & Children’s for referrals to social services, (2) partnership with First Year
Cleveland (FYC) led by MetroHealth’s Dr. Brian Mercer to address extreme
prematurity and its correlation to infant mortality, and (3) Certified Pathways
Community HUB--home based care coordination facilitated by a network of
community health workers who connect high need, at risk populations to evidencebased care and resources. The Committee discussed integration of behaviorists in
primary care office settings, and Dr. Beachy stated that MetroHealth’s Dr. Fnu
Rajesh, a physician in Family Medicine, wrote an article printed in The Journal of
Family Practice in June 2019, Volume 68, No. 5, pages 278-284. After some
discussion, Dr. Beachy thought of a video from the Nuka system care Alaska about
“superutilizers” that mentioned an encounter with the behaviorist and the presenter’s
son in a very natural way. The video can be found at
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HGsS1lKZwlc. He stated this is April Kyle and
Doug Eby talking about how they use data to help manage their complex patients.
2. MetroHealth Community Needs Assessment Review
Ms. Cook reviewed the 2018 Community Health Needs Assessment which was
commissioned as part of the creation of the Community Engagement Committee. It
was released in March 2018 and identified the following priority areas: reducing
infant mortality, addressing the opioid epidemic, eliminating racial and ethnic
disparities in chronic disease outcome, community building in Clark-Fulton and
addressing community trauma. Ms. Andolsen provided update on MetroHealthH-led
Safe Sleep Hero project in partnership with First Year Cleveland: more than 8,000
people trained, 10,000 plus books handed out and two new partnerships with Vanessa
Whiting – Popeye’s and John Hairston Jr. – Cleveland Public Library to utilize their
staff and distribution channels to spread the safe sleep message. Ms. Cook also
discussed the 2019 Shared Community Health Needs Assessment which will lead to
shared community health priorities. The short-version report is expected by
August 15, 2019.
3. MetroHealth Trauma Institute Overview
Ms. Hendrickson discussed the design, goals and structure of the MetroHealth
Community Trauma Institute whose primary purpose is to promote a widespread
commitment to understanding why, responding to, and healing from trauma.
Ms. Hendrickson shared the Institute’s d irect impact: they saw 1,300 unduplicated
patients in the last year and for those with whom they had meaningful engagement,
there was a decrease in the number of Emergency Department visits. Also discussed
was the Trauma Care model and the current partnerships with the cities of Lyndhurst
and Lakewood to provide trauma informed care across their communities. The
Trauma Institute is expecting $2.5 million in grant dollars for 2019-2020 and they are
hoping to host a trauma informed care symposium in 2020.

 4. Faith Based Engagement Update
Mr. Minor updated the Committee on the work of the Office of Spiritual Care and
Engagement, with the goal to build healthy and resilient communities and to
strengthen faith-based relationships with MetroHealth. He discussed Project Thrive –
a trauma informed pastoral care framework to assist persons impacted by trauma by
providing education services and capacity building. There are currently 15
congregations with trained Trauma Care and Response Teams and two Healing
Circles on near West side and Southeast side.
5. MetroHealth Announced Initiatives and Community Engagement Meetings
Ms. Platten gave a brief description of initiatives announced at the recent
MetroHealth Annual Meeting including housing initiatives, the $60 million
investment, digital access project, MetroHealth partnership with Tri-C, and employee
housing program. She provided an update on four recent community meetings that
touched more than 200 people, stressing that MetroHealth knows it is important to
engage with the community, talk with our neighbors and find out what they are
thinking and what they want to see.
III.

Non-Consent Action Items – None

IV.

Consent Items – None

There being no further business, the meeting adjourned at 11:30 a.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Jane M. Platten
Senior Vice President, Administration – Chief of Staff

 