ALCOHOL, DRUG ADDICTION AND MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES BOARD OF CUYAHOGA COUNTY
PLANNING & OVERSIGHT (P&O) COMMITTEE MINUTES
JULY 17, 2019
Committee Members Present: Eugenia Kirkland, LSW, MSSA, CDCA, J. Robert Fowler, Ph.D., Rev. Benjamin F.
Gohlstin, Sr., Katie Kern-Pilch, MA, ATR-BC, Mary M. Step, Ph.D.
Absent: Reginald C. Blue, Ph.D., Gregory X. Boehm, M.D., Elsie Caraballo,
Board Staff Present: Scott Osiecki, Chief Executive Officer, Carole Ballard, Christina Bohuslawsky-Brown, Curtis
Couch, Tami Fischer, Cheryl Fratalonie, Felicia Harrison, Bill Hebble, Leslie Koblentz, Carol Krajewski, Linda Lamp,
Lavedia Smith, Maggie Tolbert, Leshia Yarbrough-Franklin, Beth Zietlow-DeJesus
1.

Call to Order: Eugenia Kirkland, Committee Chair, called the meeting to order at 4:00 p.m.

2.

Approval of Minutes: The P&O Committee minutes of June 12, 2019 minutes were approved as submitted.

3. Presentation: Cuyahoga County Domestic Relations Court
Magistrate Judy Jackson-Winston, on behalf of Judge Tonya R. Jones, thanked the ADAMHS Board for funding the
Families First Program designed to assist parents battling substance use disorder and/or mental health issues which are
barriers to effective, co-parenting. The program links parents with supportive, treatment services so that they may become
healthy, vital parts of their children’s lives. The results of the program as of October 2018 were shared with the committee
and are listed in the power point handout attached to the original minutes in the Executive Unit.
Ms. Jackson-Winston noted that participation in this program is voluntary and must have approval from both parents. The
goal is to work to get people help so that they can be better parents, keep the family together and to eradicate stigma. She
noted that this is the first program of its kind in our state and the second in the country. Both Judge Jones and Magistrate
Jackson-Winston are licensed social workers and are scheduled to speak about this program at the upcoming Recovery
Conference and at a national conference in October 2019. Committee members expressed their appreciation of this effort
to intervene on behalf of the entire family and agreed that the ADAMHS Board needs to broadcast its success.
4. Travel the Road to Wellness: Behavioral Health Wellness Fair – Monday, July 22, 2019
Clients Rights Officers, Bill Hebble and Christina Bohuslawsky-Brown, briefed committee members on the plans for the
Behavioral Health Wellness Fair scheduled for Monday, July 22, 2019 at the Cleveland Marriott Airport on West 150th
Street. To publicize the event, Mr. Hebble stated that the Board has distributed flyers via U.S. mail, sent emails and
personally made phone calls to group homes and provider agencies.
The Behavioral Health Wellness Fair will offer health screenings--dental, vision and podiatry; benefits check-ups; HIV
testing and blood pressure screening and have 25 vendor tables reserved. The event will run from 10:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.
and the Board anticipates serving 200 people. The revised flyer lists the offerings on its reverse side and the offerings
were highlighted. Participants will receive a bag to collect their materials, a box lunch, a hygiene kit, etc. A gift card will be
an incentive for participants to visit 5 resource tables, receive 2 or more health screenings, and attend 5 or more
interactive sessions. Board staff will keep statistics on the health fair activities and produce a progress report to be shared.
5. Reiki Presentation
Katie Kern-Pilch, P&O Committee Vice Chair, introduced Rosanne Radziewicz, MSN, APRN-CNS, Psychiatric Advanced
Practice Nurse & Reiki Master Teacher who established the Reiki Program at MetroHealth Medical Center in 2006 and
trained approximately 200 employees on this form of alternative medicine called energy healing. Reiki practitioners use a
Page 1 of 3

 Planning & Oversight Committee Minutes
July 17, 2019
technique called palm healing or hands-on healing through which a "universal energy" is said to be transferred through the
palms of the practitioner to the client in order to encourage emotional or physical healing.
Ms. Radziewicz noted that this alternative energy was offered in the hospital’s cancer center and aims to reduce anxiety
and pain medications. She has also published the outcomes of Reiki for infants who were born from substance use
disorder mothers. She is grateful and eager to offer Reiki at the upcoming Behavioral Health Wellness Fair.
Committee Member Input:
▪ Rev. Gohlstin expressed his interest in including Reiki with the Faith-based Outreach Initiative programs.
▪ Ms. Kern-Pilch suggested the concept of including Reiki Master training in the Board’s Training Institute.
6. Northeast Ohio Collaborative: Withdrawal Management/Detoxification and Crisis Bed Expansion
Scott Osiecki, CEO, explained that near the end of SFY19, the Ohio Department of Mental Health & Addiction Services
(OhioMHAS) decided to allow unspent funds to be carried-over and spent in SFY20 for the purposes of expanding
withdrawal management and mental health crisis beds. The Northeast Ohio Collaborative that includes the Boards of
Cuyahoga, Lorain, Lake, Geauga, Ashtabula and Summit Counties) has selected the following agencies to provide
additional and/or continued services to utilize this carryover funding:
o
o

Additional Services for SFY2020
o Nine MH Crisis Beds - Lake Health - $394,200.00
o Two MH Crisis Beds Ashtabula Medical Center - $182,500.00
Continuation of Expanded Services from SFY18/19:
o Two MH Crisis Beds Ravenwood - $225,000.00
o Six WM Beds - Windsor Laurelwood - $72,380.00
o Four WM Beds - Stella Maris - $48,253.00

7/1/19 - 6/30/20
7/1/19 - 6/30/20
7/1/19 - 6/30/20
7/1/19 - 9/30/19*
7/1/19 - 9/30/19*

Our Board currently serves as the fiscal agent for this project. Mr. Osiecki informed committee members that (1) the
allocation amounts may be revised before the date of the Finance & Operations Committee and (2) that he suggested to
the NE Ohio Collaborative consideration of handling the role of fiscal agent on a rotating basis.
Motion to recommend approval of funding allocations from the Northeast Ohio Collaborative for Withdrawal
Management/Detoxification & Crisis Bed Expansion to the providers listed above to the Finance & Operations
Committee. MOTION: M. Step / SECOND: K. Kern-Pilch / AYES: R. Fowler, B. Gohlstin, K. Kern-Pilch, E. Kirkland,
M. Step / NAYS: None / Motion passed.
7. St. Vincent Charity Medicaid Upper Payment Limit Update
Mr. Osiecki introduced Assistant Prosecuting Attorney, Kelli Perk, and invited her to the Board table. Recently, Mr.
Osiecki met with the Finance Director of St. Vincent Charity Medical Center (SVCMC) to discuss the Upper Payment Limit
issue. Ms. Perk reported that a preliminary MOU (Memorandum of Understanding) draft has been prepared by the Ohio
Department of Medicaid. Ms. Perk noted that she is comfortable with this draft to date; however, the Center for Medicare
and Medicaid at the Federal level has to also approve this MOU. Ms. Perk noted that a line should be added to reference
the ADAMHS Board’s contract with St. Vincent Charity Medical Center to provide the 24-hour Psychiatric Emergency
Department services. Presently, we are in a wait and see mode until the Federal agency responds. If approved, Ms. Perk
noted that the arrangement will benefit SVCMC fiscally and will ultimately benefit the clients we serve.
8. SFY20192020 Community Plan
Mr. Osiecki explained that the ADAMHS Board is required by Ohio law to prepare and submit to OhioMHAS a Community
Plan that describes the current conditions and issues in our region in addition to identified priorities for treatment and
recovery support services and prevention services. OhioMHAS is particularly interested in an update or status of the
following areas identified as priorities by Governor DeWine’s RecoveryOhio:
1. Access and capacity changes in mental health and addiction services for both adults, children/youth;
2. Health equity concerns for racial and ethnic minorities and people living in Appalachia or rural Ohio;
3. Distinctive challenges for multi-system youth, families involved in child welfare, criminal justice-involved Ohioans;
Page 2 of 3

 Planning & Oversight Committee Minutes
4. Prevention and/or decrease of opiate overdoses and/or deaths; and
5. Suicide prevention.

July 17, 2019

Mr. Osiecki walked committee members through the Board’s Community Plan draft and highlighted various areas
addressed in the 34-page report along with the comprehensive “Crosswalk from Essential Service Categories to Individual
Services”. Board members were very impressed with the quantity and quality of information shared. Mr. Osiecki noted
that the Community Plan is to be submitted to OhioMHAS by 8/01/19.
Motion to recommend approval of the ADAMHS Board of Cuyahoga County’s SFY 2019 and 2020 Community
Plan submission to OhioMHAS to the full Board. MOTION: R. Fowler / SECOND: K. Kern-Pilch / AYES: R. Fowler,
B. Gohlstin, K. Kern-Pilch, E. Kirkland, M. Step / NAYS: None / Motion passed.
9. Strategic Plan Update
Mr. Osiecki provided an update on Goal #5, “Organizational Development and briefed committee members on the
accomplishments of the following objectives to:
1.0 Develop a Comprehensive Training & Development Program to ensure that staff knowledge and skills support
organizational priorities.
1.1 Improve the alignment between current staff development needs and training sources offered.
2.0 Promote a culture within the Board that emphasizes teamwork, collaboration, and a high sense of professional
fulfillment.
3.0 Promote a culture of high employee engagement and improve teamwork and collaboration.
The Strategic Plan Update is attached to the original minutes stored in the Executive Unit. Mr. Osiecki concurred with
Rev. Gohlstin that a staff training regarding cultural competency will be scheduled soon.
10. Strategic Plan CY2021-CY2015 Discussion
Input was sought regarding the next steps and timeline for the Board’s next Strategic Plan. Board Chair, Rev. Gohlstin,
suggested releasing a RFP (Request for Proposal) in the fall of this year for both a Strategic Plan consultant as well as a
RFP for a Needs Assessment with the goal of being ready to roll out the overall Strategic Plan in 2021. Committee
members concurred on the next steps suggested.
11. Old Business - None
12. New Business
Mr. Osiecki stated that Board staff has not yet heard if the State Budget has been approved; however, he did learn from
Cheri Walter, the Ohio Association of County Behavioral Health Authorities (OACBHA) Executive Director, that overall it is
a good budget for behavioral health and the Boards and shared the preliminary outcomes. Additionally, the state
conducted a 2-year audit of OhioMHAS. The auditor’s recommendation was that the allocation formula needs to be based
on population. Ms. Walter has been in communication with Lori Criss, OhioMHAS Executive Director, on this issue.
Director Criss noted that she plans to conduct a thorough review with others at the table, which may be a lengthy process.
Mr. Osiecki assured the committee that he intends to fight to be included at the table in order to advocate for our county’s
needs. Director Criss noted that proposed changes may not impact the distribution of allocations until the next biennial
budget.
There being no further business or audience input, the meeting adjourned at 5:30 p.m.
Submitted by:

Carol Krajewski, Executive Specialist

Approved by:

Eugenia Kirkland, LSW, MSSA, CDCA, Planning & Oversight Committee Chair

Page 3 of 3

 