 

Page 1 of 6

summit DD

MINUTES combined work session and regular meeting
Thursday, September 26, 2019

Summit County Developmental Disabilities Board

LEN 
Thursday, September 26, 2019
5:30 p.m.

The combined work session and regular meeting of the Summit County
Developmental Disabilities Board was held on Thursday, September 26, 2019 at the Summit
DD administrative of?ces located at 89 East Howe Road, Tallmadge, Ohio 44278. The work
session convened at 5:30 p.m.

Board Members Present Board Member Excused
Meghan Wilkinson, Board President Allyson V. Lee, Board Secretary
Denise Ricks, Board Vice President

Randy Briggs

Torn Quade
Dave Dohnal
Tami Gaugler

John J. Trunk, Superintendent Joe Eck, Director of Labor Relations 
Lisa Kamlowsky, Assistant Superintendent Risk Management
Russ DuPlain, Director of IT and Holly Brugh, Director of SSA Children?s
Facilities Services
Danyelle Conner, Director of HR Drew Williams, Director of Community
Mira Pozna, Director of Fiscal Supports Development
Maggi Albright, Recording Secretary and others

I. AUGUST FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

August ended with a de?cit of $10,918,319. Revenue in August included an annual
settlement from Akron Metropolitan Housing Authority (AMHA) for properties it owns
in the amount of $24,300; quarterly Title XX reimbursement of $64,100; multi-system
youth grant quarterly reimbursement of $49,900; and Part Child Find Grant
reimbursement of $44,300. Expenditures in August included payment to the Ohio
Department of Developmental Disabilities (DODD) of $6,142,500 for quarterly waiver
match and payment to ComDoc in the amount of $79,600 for customized technical
support. August ended with a fund balance of $39,801,944. The August Financial
Statements have been recommended for approval by the September Finance 
Facilities Committee.

The work session adjourned at 5:32 p.m.



Page 2 of 6

summit DD

MINUTES combined work session and regular meeting
Thursday, September 26, 2019

MEETING

The regular meeting of the Summit County Developmental Disabilities Board
convened at 5:32 pm.

I.

II.

BOARD MEMBER CAUCUS

Mr. Briggs announced that he intends to propose a resolution tonight to endorse the
Alcohol, Drug Addiction Mental Health Services (ADM) Board Issue #14 in support of
its Levy. The ADM Board staff were very helpful when the Summit DD Board had a
Levy on the ballot and there is a great need for Levy agencies to work together since
all collaborate for the betterment of the community. Superintendent Trunk added that
the ADM Board has been a good collaborative partner and there is a strong working
relationship between the two agencies. The Levy is a six-year renewal of an existing
2.95 mil Lew, which makes up 78% of the ADM Board?s budget. The passage of this
Levy is critical to the continuation of programs and services. Mr. Trunk thanked the
Board for the endorsement.

PUBLIC COMMENT

Leslie Frank, a parent and former Summit DD staff, asked for an update regarding the
sale of the Bath Center. Mr. Trunk responded that there has been interest in the
property but it has not materialized into an offer. Staff are working with the County
on legislation that may lead to having the property listed and hopefully sold.

Ms. Frank noted that Summit Housing Development Corporation (SHDC) has moved its
of?ces out of the Cuyahoga Falls Center and asked if this is in preparation for

Summit DD to occupy the building. She stated she attended the Cuyahoga Falls City
Council Meeting and was pleased that Council approved plans for additional parking.
Mr. Trunk replied that SHDC has relocated to new of?ces. He also thanked Ms. Frank
for her support.

Jordan English, a Summit DD Behavior Support SSA, remarked that he has the
opportunity to work with SSAs and other staff to help the Agency be the best it can
be. He stated that management listen to staff and respond, which makes people feel
valued and respected and he appreciates this level of support. He commented on the
Agency's core vale of innovation and noted that Summit DD is a leader in this area.
Mr. English said he feels fortunate to work for Summit DD and thought the Board
might want to hear this perspective. Mrs. Wilkinson thanked Mr. English for his
comments and also thanked staff for all that they do for the individuals and families
the Board supports; it helps to build a strong community. Mr. Quade added that he
has served on many boards over the years and he rarely hears staff talk about how
good things are working. It validates the feeling that Summit DD is an amazing place
with wonderful people who are doing incredible work.

Page 3 of 6

summit DD

MINUTES combined work session and regular meeting
Thursday, September 26, 2019

BOARD MEETING (continued)

APPROVAL OF MINUTES

A.

AUGUST 22, 2019 (combined work session and regular meeting)

RESOLUTION
No.19-09-01

Mr. Br] 5 moved that the Board a rove the minutes of the Au ust 22 2019

combined work session and regular meeting. as presented in attachment 
The motion, seconded by Mr. Quade, was unanimously approved.

 

IV. BOARD ACTION ITEMS

A.

OTHER
1. ENDORSEMENT OF ADM BOARD LEW

RESOLUTION
No.19-09-02

Mr. Bricicis moved that whereas the Summit Countv Alcohol. Drug Addiction 

Mental Health Services Board provides critical education, programs and
supports to Summit County residents and

Whereas the ADM Board is seeking a renewal of its current Leyy that funds the
majorly of services in our community;

Therefore be it resolved that the Summit County Developmental Disabilities
Board does hereby endorse the ADM Board Issue #14 ballot initiative appearing
on the November 2019 ballotI and further authorizes the Superintendent to sign

anv documents necessary to communicate said endorsement. The motion.
seconded Mr. uade was unanimousl a roved.

 

FINANCE FACILITIES COMMITTEE
1. AUGUST FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

RESOLUTION
No.19-09-03

Mr. uade moved that the Board a rove Au ust Financial Statements

as presented in attachment The motion, seconded by Mrs. Ricks,
was unanimously approved.

Page 4 of 6

i sumrmt DD

MINUTES combined work session and regular meeting

Thursday, September 26, 2019
BOARD ETI NG (continued)

V. REPORT

Superintendent Trunk thanked Lisa Kamlowsky and Mira Pozna for presenting
Summit DDS 2020 budget to the Social Services Advisory Board?s (SSAB) Budget 
Levy Review Committee. The full SSAB subsequently approved the budget and the
next step is for the budget to be presented to County Council on November 

Mr. Trunk stated that discussions and planning around the use of the Cuyahoga Falls
Center have been ongoing for several years. He announced that Cuyahoga Falls City
Council took of?cial action to purchase property adjacent to the Cuyahoga Falls
Center, which secures additional parking needed for staff to occupy that building. The
Cuyahoga Falls and Barberton Centers will be used to transition staff from the Howe
Road campus. Mr. Trunk noted there has been great support from Mayor Walters of
Cuyahoga Falls and his staff. He credits Lisa Kamlowsky, Russ DuPlain and Mira Pozna
for assisting in putting a plan together. Mr. Trunk noted that staff have also been
working with Mayor Kline of Tallmadge relative to future use of the Howe Road
campus.

Mr. Trunk advised that DODD Director Jeff Davis was in the county this past Friday on
other business and he and his leadership team had the opportunity to meet and
review several topics of state-wide interest. Drew Williams and Holly Brugh talked
about person centered planning, along with some initiatives and collaborative
partnerships. The Director offered to include both on some state-wide committees.
Summit DD does some things very well and staff are excited to share information with
others. Mr. Trunk thanked Tom Quade, who also attended the meeting. Mr. Quade
spoke about health disparities among the disabled population and made a connection
between shaping policies state-wide and helping people get the supports they need.
Mr. Quade commented that the Director was clearly impressed with the work being
done in Summit County and that the Director considers Summit DD to be a leader in
the state. Public health needs to look across the entire spectrum. Health departments
and DD Boards could partner with a shared mission. Mr. Trunk noted the Director
committed to sharing conversations with his cabinet and the Director of Health.

Mr. Trunk mentioned he also talked with the Director around Social Security and
Medicaid eligibility relative to retirement for people with disabilities. There is currently
an unintended consequence that can negatively impact retirement bene?ts. The
Director was very interested and said he would have his staff work on this issue. This
is an issue that will take time, however, since it is a nation-wide issue and legislation
may need to be updated.

Mr. Trunk advised that staff are beginning to build the 2020 Action Plan around the
three major goals of: ensuring quality services, empowering an engaged workforce
and ensuring sustainability. A draft should be submitted to the Board in November,
public hearings will be held in early December and Board approval of the Plan will be
requested at the December Board Meeting.

Page 5 of 6

.
(EL summ1t DD

MINUTES combined work session and regular meeting
Thursday, September 26, 2019

VI.

VII.



BOARD MEETING (continued)

COMMENTS
A. NOMINATING COMMITTEE

Mrs. Wilkinson indicated that she would like Board Members to start thinking
about leadership for next year. She asked Dave Dohnal if he would serve as
the Nominating Committee. Mr. Dohnal accepted.

Mrs. Wilkinson said she read something the other day that struck 

You cannot get through a single day without making a di??erence and you have to
decide what kind of di??erence you want to make. She stated that sharing your
passion makes a difference and urged everyone to keep working hard and striving to
be better and to make a difference and know that each person is appreciated.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

RESOLUTION
No.19-09-04

Mrs. Ricks moved that the Board enter into Executive Session in compliance with
Sunshine Laws. Ohio Revised Code 121.22I Section GI Subsection (1) to consider the
employment of public employees. Upon reconvening, the Board may or may not
conduct additional business. The motion was seconded by Mr. Dohnal.

Roll call: Briggs-yes, Quade-yes, Wilkinson-yes, Ricks-yes. Gaugler?yes, and

Dohnal-yes.
The regular session of the Board Meeting adjourned at 5:56 pm.
The Board entered Executive Session at 6:01 pm.

The Board Meeting reconvened at 6:07 pm.

ADDITIONAL ACTION ITEMS

A. EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT - HOLLY BRUGH

RESOLUTION
No.19-09-05

Mr. Quade moved that the Board approve a contract of employment for

Holly BrughI Director of Service Support Administration and Children?s
ServicesI for the period JanuaLy 3. 2020 through January 2. 2022. The motionI
seconded by Mr. Briggs, was unanimously approved.

Page 6 of 6

a .

l.

summ1t DD


MINUTES combined work session and regular meeting

Thursday, September 26, 2019
BOARD MEETING (continued)
ADDITIONAL ACTION ITEMS (continued)

B. EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT - RUSS DUPLAIN

RESOLUTION


Mrs. Ricks moved that the Board a rove a contract of em lo ment for
Russ DuPlain Director of IT and Facilities for the eriod Janua 3 2020
throu Janua 2 2022. The motion seconded Mrs. Gau ler was
unanimously approved.

 

 

 

There being no further business, the Board Meeting adjourned at 6:08 pm.

W?w

Ally?un V. Lee, Secretary

