Minutes of the meeting of the Cuyahoga County Monument Commission held August 22, 2019
at 8:00 a.m. on the third floor of the County Archives building. The following members of the
Records Commission were present:
Judith G. Cetina
Patrick Hewitt representing the County Planning Commission
Otilio Morales representing the Department of Public Works
Joseph Nanni
representing the Cuyahoga County Council
Jose Quiarte

The following persons were also present:
Joe Boatwright
John Myers

Cuyahoga County Law Department
Department of Public Works

The first meeting of the Cuyahoga County Monument Commission, held in the Cuyahoga
County Archives Building, was called to order at 8:00 a.m. Judith Cetina distributed an Agenda
for the Meeting and offered to take Minutes. Copies of the Ordinance establishing the
Commission, and the By-Laws created for the Cuyahoga County Archives Advisory
Commission, were also made available to the members in attendance. After a welcome to all a
brief discussion ensued regarding the challenges facing the new Commission, including the
establishment of operational policies and procedures, the creation of a meeting calendar, and an
exploration of the responsibilities inherent in the mission statement. The members then turned to
its first major action item: to accept or refuse the donation of the Judge Perry B. Jackson Statue.
Although the members expressed some reservations about rendering an important decision with
such short notice; it was clear from the narrative provided by Mr. Morales, Mr. Boatwright, and
Mr. Myers, that the project to create and install the statue in the Justice Center had been in
progress for several years and was reaching completion prior to the implementation of the
Ordinance establishing the Monument Commission. The members subsequently proceeded to
craft a motion to accept the Judge Perry B. Jackson statue. Joseph Nanni moved to accept the
donation of a statue of Judge Perry B. Jackson from Dr. Anita Jackson, with the understanding
that Cuyahoga County would assume all responsibilities for the statue after its delivery to the
Justice Center. It was also agreed that the Law Department would draft a written agreement,
accepting the donation, to be sent to Dr. Jackson. The motion, seconded by Otilio Morales was
then approved by all voting members present.
Next the Commission addressed certain procedural matters regarding the possible election of
officers, the memorialization of its actions in the form of resolution, the use of its web site to
Cuyahoga County Monument Commission Meeting

 August 22, 2019
Page Two

post agenda and minutes, and the establishment of a date for the next meeting. Responding to
some of these issues, Mr. Nanni offered the assistance of Tiffany A. Burke from his staff to take
on the responsibility for updating the web site, taking minutes, and sending meeting invitations.
It was suggested that with Ms. Burke’s help it might not be necessary to elect a Commission
member to assume the position of a secretary. Before the meeting adjourned it was agreed that
Tiffany Burke would circulate a list of possible dates for the next meeting, ideally in September,
when the members could devote their attention to developing goals and objectives, best
practices, and other organizational matters. The meeting was thereafter adjourned by the
unanimous consent of its members.
Respectfully submitted,

Judith G. Cetina, Ph.D.
Commission Member
Acting Secretary

 