AKRON-SUMMIT COUNTY PUBLIC LIBRARY
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
REGULAR MEETING
FEBRUARY 28, 2019
BOARD ROOM, MAIN LIBRARY
President Jim Casey called the regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Akron-Summit
County Public Library to order at 4:11 pm in the Board Room at Main Library. The following members of the
Board answered the roll call: Lolita Adair, James D. Casey, Jill Darlington, William D. Rich, and Ray Weber.
John Frola, Jr. was absent. Bernie Rochford arrived at 4:14 pm.
Present from Library staff were Pam Hickson-Stevenson, Michelle Scarpitti, Andrea Cowgar, Carla
Davis, Cheryl Engel, Stephanie Joliff, Pat Manning, Patty March, Lisa Peercy, Pam Plumley, Carl Roxbury,
and Cameron Schrode.
Mr. Casey asked for any changes to the agenda. Mr. Weber moved, seconded 19-20
by Mr. Rich, to adopt the agenda as presented. The roll call vote followed: Mrs. Adair, AGENDA
Mr. Casey, Mrs. Darlington, Mr. Rich, and Mr. Weber all voted aye. The motion
carried.
Mr. Weber moved, seconded by Mr. Rich, to adopt the minutes of the January
31, 2018 organizational meeting minutes as presented. With no objections, the roll call
vote followed: Mr. Casey, Mrs. Darlington, Mr. Rich, and Mr. Weber all voted aye.
Mrs. Adair abstained. The motion carried.

19-21
JANUARY
ORGANIZATIONAL
MINUTES

Mr. Rich moved, seconded by Mr. Weber, to adopt the minutes of the January
31, 2018 regular meeting minutes as presented. Request was made to add the reason
for Executive Session. With no objections, the roll call vote followed: Mr. Casey, Mrs.
Darlington, Mr. Rich, and Mr. Weber all voted aye. Mrs. Adair and Mr. Rochford
abstained. The motion carried.

19-22
JANUARY
REGULAR
MINUTES

Mr. Casey stated that he had no comments at this time.

PRESIDENT’S
REMARKS

Michelle Scarpitti, Fiscal Officer, presented her executive summary and stated
there was a revised financial report for December 2018. Additional receipts were added
and there were a couple of fixes on the accounting order. The correction was $5,000 to
the good. Salaries also went down about $700. She stated that the Public Library Fund
was the primary revenue fund for November.
19-23
REVISED
Mr. Rochford moved, seconded by Mr. Weber, to adopt the revised December DECEMBER 2018
2018 financial report. The roll call vote followed: Mrs. Adair, Mr. Casey, Mrs. FINANCIAL
Darlington, Mr. Rich, Mr. Rochford and Mr. Weber all voted aye. The motion carried. REPORT
Ms. Scarpitti announced a correction in the principal on the Bond Retirement
Fund due to a typo. The amount should have been $4,890,000. Mr. Weber moved,
seconded by Mr. Rochford, to adopt the January 2019 financial report. The roll call
vote followed: Mrs. Adair, Mr. Casey, Mrs. Darlington, Mr. Rich, Mr. Rochford and
Mr. Weber all voted aye. The motion carried.

19-24
JANUARY 2019
FINANCIAL
REPORT

 Ms. Scarpitti presented the donor/gift list. There were $575 in donations and
approximately two pages of material donations. The list also showed acknowledgment
of in-kind donations to particular branches.
Mrs. Adair moved, seconded by Mr. Rochford, acceptance of the donor/gift list 19-25
with great appreciation. The roll call vote followed: Mrs. Adair, Mr. Casey, Mrs. ACCEPTANCE OF
Darlington, Mr. Rich, Mr. Rochford and Mr. Weber all voted aye. The motion carried. DONOR/GIFT LIST
Ms. Scarpitti stated that when the new credit card policy was approved last
month, there was not a compliance officer appointed. She cannot serve in that capacity,
but Pam Hickson-Stevenson can. It could also be the Deputy or HR Director. It did
not seem correct to have someone reporting to her reviewing her. Pam and Michelle
are independent of each other. Pam is happy to serve in that roll and feels it is
appropriate.
Mr. Rich moved and Mrs. Adair seconded that Pam Hickson-Stevenson be
appointed as Compliance Officer per the current credit card policy. The roll call vote
followed: Mrs. Adair, Mr. Casey, Mrs. Darlington, Mr. Rich, Mr. Rochford and Mr.
Weber all voted aye. The motion carried.

19-26
APPOINTMENT OF
COMPLIANCE
OFFICER

Ms. Scarpitti presented the investment report for January 2019 and highlighted
$7,959,030 in principal with $13,865.75 in interest earned, with 77% going to the
General Fund in January.
(The financial reports are appended to the minutes.)
Lisa Peercy, Human Resources Director, presented the Personnel Report for
January 2019. Ms. Peercy stated there were no changes to the report since it was sent
to the board members.
AKRON-SUMMIT COUNTY PUBLIC LIBRARY
Personnel Report – February 2019

RESIGNATIONS:
Employee
Miller, Alexus

Classification
Student Assistant

Date
01.28.19

Agency
Student Assistant

SELECTIONS:
Employee
Fisher, Michael

Classification
System Support Technician

Date
02.18.19

Agency
Information Technology

Haprian, Angela

Substitute Public Service Assistant

02.20.19

Public Services

Price, Susan

Substitute Public Service Assistant

02.20.19

Public Services

Rose, Alaina

PSA II Full-Time

02.18.19

Odom

2

 Smith, Jeffrey

APD

CHANGE OF STATUS:
Employee
Classification
Marten, Kathy
Librarian Full-Time
Librarian Job Share

01.16.19

Security

Date
02.04.19

Agency
Children’s Library
Same

Miraglia, Lindsey

Tech Services Assistant
FMLA without pay

01.11.19

Technical Services

Miraglia, Lindsey

FMLA without pay
Tech Services Assistant

01.14.19

Technical Services

Redman, Jill

Early Childhood Librarian Full-Time
Early Childhood Librarian Job Share

02.25.19

Tallmadge
Highland Square

Walker, Ashlyn

FMLA without pay
Clerical Assistant

01.23.19

Magazines & Newspapers

NUMBER OF STAFF MEMBERS
Full-Time Staff:
Part-time/Job-Share Staff:
Student Assistants:
Total number of Staff:
Full-Time Equivalents

06.16.09
291
68
86
445
339

06.09.10
270
54
73
397
307

02.08.17
259
47
77
383
295

02.13.18
268
45
73
389
300

02.20.19
272
48
75
395
306

NOTE: These numbers cannot be compared from month to month for the following reason: the numbers may not reflect additions and
deletions to the payroll system as the changes are made immediately prior to or after the date the personnel action is effective.

Mr. Rich moved, seconded by Mr. Weber, adoption of the February
2019 Personnel Report. The roll call vote followed: Mrs. Adair, Mr. Casey,
Mrs. Darlington, Mr. Rich, Mr. Rochford and Mr. Weber all voted aye. The
motion carried.

19-27
FEBRUARY 2019
PERSONNEL REPORT

Ms. Hickson-Stevenson stated that she has brought more information DIRECTOR’S REPORT
regarding the two requests for changes in the fines policy presented in December.
A memo was included in the packet answering Mrs. Adair’s questions brought up
in December. Cameron Schrode was present to answer any questions regarding
the numbers.
The overdue information is included from the website. Mrs. Adair indicated
that they need to be modernized. Ms. Hickson-Stevenson stated that staff is
already looking at it to make changes.
Currently the maximum fine is the cost of the item – whether the invoiced
purchase price or a default (if the item had been donated). When the fines reach
$75.00, they are turned over to collections. Currently, if the item is returned, they
3

FINES DISCUSSION

 still have to pay the cost of the item. The request is to change it to a maximum
$5.00 fine if the item is returned.
Clarification was given that the chart on page 2 showed the length of time
their borrowing privileges had been blocked. This would include people who have
not come back to the library. The data goes back to 2008 currently, as the system
was changed at that time. The chart on page 3 shows a list of 9,452 people, some
possibly not returning due to moving or being deceased, were blocked in 2018 due
to DVD/HS materials. It was stated that we currently have approximately 300,000
patrons in our system.
It was suggested that it be sent back to the committee with guidance on the
goal. What cost is incurred when they don’t follow rules.
Ms. Hickson-Stevenson asked that the board focus on the two
recommendations brought before them: to reduce the fines on DVDs/VHS from
50 cents a day to 10 cents a day to be in line with the print fines, except for hot
picks. It is a less punitive condition if there is a life issue for the patrons It is a
challenge to both staff and patrons.
The second recommendation is to cap overdue fines for returned materials
at $5.00. If they never return the item, they still receive a bill and are blocked. If
they want to have privileges again, they have to come in and talk to staff. The
issue is that someone could currently return an item and still have to pay an
amount equal to the cost of the item. This is incomprehensible to the patrons who
have returned the item. We can take a look at the other issues at a later date, in
order to not hold things up at this time.
Mrs. Adair stated that we can change a policy if someone brings an item
back as opposed to not bringing it back. She suggested having a waiving issue in
place. She wants people to feel responsible. Ms. Scarpitti feels that if a person
does not know that the fine can be waived. They might not return the items. Our
main goal is to get items returned to the library to be used by other patrons. Ms.
Hickson-Stevenson also stated that she thinks we will lose even more patrons
borrowing due to streaming options, etc.
19-28
A motion was made to reduce the fines on DVDs/VHS from 50 cents a day
OVERDUE FINES ON
to 10 cents a day to be in line with print materials. Mrs. Adair voted no, Mr.
DVSs/VHS REDUCED
Casey, Mrs. Darlington, Mr. Rich, Mr. Rochford and Mr. Weber all voted yes.
TO 10 CENTS A DAY
The motion passed.
A motion was made to cap overdue fines on all materials from $10.00 to
$5.00 per item IF material was returned. Fines will remain the same if materials
are not returned. Mrs. Adair, Mr. Casey, Mrs. Darlington, Mr. Rich, Mr. Rochford
and Mr. Weber all voted yes. The motion passed.

19-29
CAP ON FINES IF
MATERIAL RETURNED
TO $5.00.

Mental Health Training Grant – we have commitments from Akron Art MENTAL HEALTH
Museum, Bierce Library, Barberton Public Library, Project Learn, Summit Metro TRAINING GRANT
Parks. This is all covered by a grant covering the entire event.

4

 We are one of three libraries in Ohio selected to participate with the Grow GROW WITH GOOGLE
with Google event. It will occur on March 20th. The other two are Columbus and
Lima. They are bringing in everything from tables, chairs, chrome books to
unarmed guards. Grow with Google experts will deliver in person workshop to
job seekers and small businesses.
Ms. Hickson-Stevenson reminded the board that Legislative Day is on
April 9th and the Trustee Dinner will occur on April 25th, the same day as the board
meeting in Mogadore.
There are no reports from the board committees, no reports from the
administration team, and no public participation requests.
Mr. Rochford stated that he saw a banner a friend had made in our Maker
Space. When he commented on it, the friend stated how great he thought this area
was in the library.
Having no further business, Mr. Casey adjourned the meeting at 5:35pm.

_______________________________________
President
_______________________________________
Secretary

5

ADJOURNMENT

 