         

American Legion American Veterans Disabled American Veterans Veterans of Foreign Wars Vietnam Veterans oI?AInerica

MEL BAIIER FRANK CHRISTOPHER GRAU CLAYTON E. UZELL BOB POTTS
COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER

Cuyahoga County

REI 
m?fv, Wino, Veterans Servrce Comm1ss1on
Ph: 216.698.2600 0 Fax: 216.698.2650
Email: vscmail@cuyahogacounty.us
1849 Prospect Avenue 0 Suite ISO 0 Cleveland, OH 441 15

MINUTES

April 3, 2019 9:30 am.
PRESENT:

Clay Uzell, President

Mel Baher, Vice President

Christopher Grau, Secretary

Frank Pocci, Commissioner

Bob Potts, Commissioner

on Reiss, Executive Director

Mary Kitko, Executive Secretary
EXCUSED: Brian Gutkoski, Asst. County Prosecutor
VISITORS: None
PURPOSE: GENERAL MEETING

The meeting was called to order by President Clay Uzell followed by the Pledge of Allegiance.

A motion was made by Frank Pocci and seconded by Bob Potts to diSpense with the? reading of the
Consent Agenda and to accept the agenda with the necessary corrections and/or additions. (All
Commissioners have a copy of the minutes.) Several items from correspondence were set aside for
discussion in Executive Session.

AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

COMMISSIONERS REPORTS:
Christopher Grau DAV
0 March 6th I attended the public meeting.
March 13th I attended the Appeals meeting.
March 19th I recused myself from the VC meeting due to a VSC personnel matter.
March 20th I attended the public meeting.
March 21St I attended DAV Chapter 108 meeting. I ran the chapter meeting for the
Commander.

I 0

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886? Internet 0 

0 March 26?h I am working with the Rocky River FPO (Fire Prevention Officer) with a Veteran
who was discovered during a building inspection. Details and referral will be provided to a V80.

0 March 27?? I attended the Appeals meeting.

Frank Pocci AMVETS
0 During March I attended two of the scheduled meetings.
0 I attended the AMVETS meeting and gave the ?nancial report.
0 I attended the Italian American War Veterans (ITAM) meeting. As finance officer I also
completed and presented our financial report.
0 I attended the March meeting of the Catholic War Veterans.
I attended the required Commissioner training at the Embassy Suites in Dublin, Ohio.

Bob Potts VVA

March I attended open public meeting.

March 7?h ?1 attended the VVA Chapter 249 membership meeting.
March 13?? I attended appeals meeting.

March 13?? I attended Robert Erb?s retirement luncheon.

March 20?? I attended open public meeting

0 March 27??1 I attended appeals meeting.

0 March 29-30?h I attended required OSAVSC Spring Conference.

I 0

Mel Baher American Legion

I attended all scheduled meetings of the during the month of March 2019. Following is a
report of my activities outside of the Cuyahoga County Veterans Service Commission for the
month of March 2019.

0 Sunday, March 3rd I attended the American Legion 13?h District Spring Conference held at
American Legion Post 421, in Fairview Park, Ohio. The meeting began at 10:00 am. I presented
the executive board approved financial reports for January 2019, as District Finance Officer.

0 Thursday, March 14th I attended the American Legion Post 91 membership meeting. The
meeting began at 7:00 pm. and I presented the current membership report, as Post 15? Vice
Commander.

0 Sunday, March 17th I volunteered at the Post 91 annual St. Patrick?s Day lunch and dinner
event. The event was well attended and everyone had a good time.

0 Monday, March 25?? I attended the American Legion 13?? District Executive board meeting, held
at American Legion Post 421, in Fairview Park, Ohio. The meeting began at 7:30 pm. I
presented the February 2019 finance report for executive board approval, as District Finance
Officer.

0 Thursday, March 28th I attended the American Legion Post 91 executive board meeting at 7:00
pm. I presented an updated membership report, as Post 15? Vice Commander.

a Friday, March 29?? I departed for Dublin, Ohio to attend the required Commissioner training
held at the Embassy Suites on Saturday. Events included District meetings in the early morning 
followed by general assembly District reports, and greetings from our new Director of the
Department of Veteran Services, Deborah Ashenhurst. After lunch we had a presentation by Tim
Spradlin on his work with the ?Save a Warrior? program. Training was on Public Records Act and
the Open Meetings Act, as specified in the recently enacted Ohio House Bill 9.

Clay Uzell VFW

0 March 2?d I attended the VFW District 7 Awards Banquet. As Safety Chairman I presented
awards to Law Enforcement, Fire Fighter and EMT of the Year. Also, I was surprised by the

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886? Internet 0 

District Commander who presented me with a plaque for my dedication and commitment to make
District 7 safety program a success.

0 March 6th attended the first Open Public meeting.

0 March 13th - I attended the Level Appeals meeting.

0 March 18?? I attended the VFW Post 7536 meeting. Nominations were made for the election of
officers for the upcoming year which will be held in April.

0 March 19?? I attended training at the VFW Headquarters in Columbus from 9:30 am. 3:00 pm.
Training included the new computer system and chairman responsibilities with the new program
system.

0 March 20th - I attended the open public meeting.

0 March 24?? I conducted the VFW funeral ritual for deceased life member Geno Manfredi at
Vitantonio Funeral Home on Murray Hill. A ?ag case was presented to the family. Seven (7)
members took part in the service.

a March 25?? I received the National appointment to serve on the Veterans Service Committee in
Orlando, Florida at the 120?? National Convention.

0 March 27th I attended the Level Appeals meeting.

0 March 28?? I visited with Service Officer Bill Vissi after a doctor?s appointment.

0 March 29?? 30?? I attended the OSAVSC training for Commissioners in Dublin, Ohio. We
went over public records laws, open session, and executive session meetings. Class was
conducted by the State Auditor?s office and ended at 3:30 pm.

0 March 30?? I attended the VFW State Commander and Presidents Testimonial Dinner ?Sock
Hop? Old time Rock Roll event. It was a great time.

OLD BUSINESS:
The budget will be reviewed by the Commissioners and ?nalized in the next few weeks.

NACVSO training will take place in Cleveland in June. All Service Officers will attend. Only financial
assistance will be available for clients during training.

NEW BUSINESS:

A motion was made by Mel Baher and seconded by Chris Grau to approve Resolution 2019-08 providing
for the purchase of a recruitment ad with Advance Ohio for the position of Financial Operations Manager.
The purchase of the recruitment ad with Advance Ohio will not exceed $2,000

AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

Employee dress code was discussed. Employees are expected to be dressed appropriately. If shirts are
made to be tucked in, they should be tucked in. Hats are not to be worn during work hours.

GOOD OF THE ORDER:
Mel Baher was at the Farina CBOC and noticed an employee putting packets with useful VA information
on chairs. The packet had the VSC logo on it. The Director will reach out to the employee to obtain

copies.

Chris Grau distributed pamphlets from the Military Task Force developed by the Alzheimer?s
Association.

Jon Reiss requested permission to attend SERB Academy to learn more about collective bargaining. The
Board is in agreement that he should attend.

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886? Internet 0 

Each Commissioner will now be required to pay a $75 fee to cover registration for training and annual
dues. A memo will be forthcoming from the Treasurer with details.

EXECUTIVE SESSION:

A motion was made by Chris Grau and seconded by Mel Baher and to go in to Executive Session to
consider employment, discipline and/or dismissal of a public employee, employee compensation and
collective bargaining matters.

AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried. (10:06 am.)

The Board came out of Executive Session and returned to the regular order of business at 11:16 am.

The Executive Director will join legal counsel in Columbus for a hearing with the State Personnel Board
of Review.

On April 30, 2019 there will be a phone conference with legal counsel, the Executive Director, and the
State Employee Relations Board.

Changes of duties for Ferrone Williams were discussed and approved. Changes are effective January 1,
2019.

Scenarios for employee compensation were discussed. The Director will work on options and present
them at the next board meeting.

A motion was made by Mel Baher and seconded by Bob Potts to grant a bonus for Patricia Galbraith and
Colleen Kehoe, in the amount of $2500 each, for. the additional work load they have sustained for the past

three months.
AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

With no further business, a motion was made by Frank Pocci and seconded by Chris Grau to adjourn the

meeting at 1 1:26 am.
AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

Clay zell, President Chips/Grau, Secretary

CONTACT INFORMATION
Requests for Financial Assistance/
Filing claims with the Dept. of

 

Veterans? Affairs/Memorial Affairs: Charlene Amos, Service Officer Mgr. (216-698-3831)
Melinda Halliburton, Service Of?ce Mgr. (216-698-2639)
Finance Dept: Open
Social Work Dept: Terry Walker, Social Worker/Case Mgmt. (216?698-2379)
Executive Director: Jon Reiss (216-698-2611)
Commissioners: Mary Kitko, Secretary to the Board (216-698-2651)

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886? Internet 0 

