Regular Meeting of the
Cuyahoga Arts & Culture Board of Trustees
Neighborhood Connections – 5000 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland OH
Wednesday, February 20, 2019, 4:00 pm

1. Call to order, approval of minutes
2. Executive Session
3. Public Comment on Today’s Agenda
4. Executive Director Report
5. Connect with Culture
6. Action Items and Reports – Grantmaking
7. Action Items and Reports – Finance and General Business
a. Finance Report
b. Approval of contracts/policies
c. Executive Director Search
8. Public Comment
9. Adjourn

Next Meeting: Annual Meeting
Wednesday, April 24, 2019 at 4 pm
The Dealership
3558 Lee Road, Shaker Heights, OH 44120

 Minutes of the Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees
Tuesday, December 11, 2018

A meeting of the Cuyahoga Arts & Culture (CAC) Board of Trustees was called to order at 3:37 pm in the
Miller Classroom, Idea Center, 1375 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland.
The roll call showed that Trustees Garth, Hanson, Miller and Sherman were present. Trustee Avsec was
absent. It was determined that there was a quorum.
Also in attendance were: CAC staff: Jill Paulsen, interim CEO + executive director; Roshi Ahmadian; Luis
Gomez; Meg Harris; Heather Johnson-Banks; Dan McLaughlin; India Pierre-Ingram; and Jake Sinatra.
Motion by Trustee Hanson, seconded by Trustee Garth, to adjourn into executive session to consider the
compensation of public employees. Discussion: None. Roll CallVote: Garth, aye; Hanson; aye; Miller, aye;
Sherman, aye. The motion carried.
At 4:34 pm executive session adjourned and the Board resumed the public meeting.
1. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion by Trustee Hanson, seconded by Trustee Garth, to approve the minutes from the November 13,
2018 Board meeting. Discussion: None. Vote: all ayes. The motion carried.
2. PUBLIC COMMENT ON MEETING AGENDA ITEMS
There were no comments on the meeting agenda items.
3. EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR’S REPORT
Ms. Paulsen thanked everyone for joining her and the Board. Ms. Paulsen’s remarks can be found here.
4. BOARD ACTION - Grantmaking
Approval of Grants: Support for Artists
Ms. Johnson-Banks presented two additional grant recommendations for the Support for Artists initiative
as detailed in the memo shared with the Board as part of this meeting’s materials.
Motion by Trustee Garth, seconded by Trustee Miller, to approve a grant to Karamu House in the amount
of $95,000 for eight visual artist and four performing artist residencies. Visual artists will be given studio
space and participate in an exhibition of work created by all resident artists. Performing artists will also be

 given rehearsal space, access to Karamu’s production team, and will present their work to the public.
Karamu will also provide shared office space to resident and community artists. Discussion: None. Vote:
all ayes. The motion carried.
Motion by Trustee Miller, seconded by Trustee Hanson, to approve a grant to Cleveland Arts Prize in the
amount of $15,000 to expand its Verge fellowship to provide awards of at least $2,500 to at least five Verge
artists; this sponsorship-grant builds on a program funded by the Cleveland Foundation. Discussion: None.
Vote: all ayes. The motion carried.
Update on CPCP Artist Learning Lab
Mr. Sinatra presented on CPCP’s Learning Lab which convened for the first of three sessions on November
28th. Mr. Sinatra shared that the Lab strives to create a space for learning and connections between local
artists and the nonprofit community. Mr. Sinatra stated that the program is the first step in addressing a
need that was shared by artists by creating opportunities for artists and nonprofits to come together to
explore collaboration, break down assumptions, and share power. Mr. Sinatra stated that there is an
additional public workshop on December 18 with space for up to 30 artists. This workshop will provide an
additional opportunity for artists to learn about the civic practice framework. Mr. Sinatra stated that at the
February Board meeting, he plans to bring a slate of new grants, the resulting projects from the Labs; to the
Board for approval. This program was designed to give the participants the opportunity to activate what
they learned in the three-day program and partner to carry out a civic practice project (with a grant of up to
$7,500 from CAC) in 2019.
5. CONNECT WITH CULTURE
The Cleveland Museum of Art presented their Diversity, Equity and Inclusion plan to the Board.
6. FINANCE REPORT
Ms. Harris’ report can be found here.
7. BOARD ACTION – Finance and General Business
Approval of 2019 Operating Budget
Ms. Paulsen presented an overview of the 2019 operating budget. She said that the FY19 budget is very
similar to the FY18 budget and noted that the Board had in fact already approved the bulk of the budget
when they approved 2019 grants at the November meeting.
Motion by Trustee Miller, seconded by Hanson, to approve the CAC’s 2019 operating budget. Discussion:
None. Vote: All ayes. The motion carried.
Contracts
Ms. Paulsen and Mr. Sinatra gave an overview of the various contracts included in the board packet for
Board approval.
Motion by Trustee Hanson, seconded by Trustee Miller, to approve $20,000 to DataArts for a one-year
grant to support CAC’s 2019 participation in the Cultural Data Project. Discussion: None. Vote: All ayes.
The motion carried.
Motion by Trustee Miller, seconded by Trustee Hanson, to approve a contract up to $19,500 with
Neighborhood Connections to design, host and conduct outreach and follow-up for four Arts & Culture

 Network Nights throughout Cuyahoga County in 2019. Vote – Ayes: Hanson, Miller, Sherman. Nays:
None. Abstain: Garth. The motion carried.
Motion by Trustee Miller, seconded by Trustee Garth, to enter into a twelve-month contract in the amount
of $40,000 with Compelling Communications for work in the areas of communications and media relations.
Discussion: None. Vote: All ayes. The motion carried.
Motion by Trustee Miller, seconded by Trustee Hanson, to approve contract up to $12,000 with WKYC
TEGNA Marketing solutions a media partnership in 2019 with Cleveland's WYKC Channel 3 "Live on
Lakeside" program to provide monthly features of CAC-funded activities and promote the work of our
grantees on TV and online. Discussion: None. Vote: All ayes. The motion carried.
Motion by Trustee Miller, seconded by Trustee Hanson, to approve a contract up to $12,000 with Issue
Media Group for a media partnership designed to build interest and awareness for CAC programs and to
highlight the work of CAC-funded organizations through monthly feature articles, photos, videos and
targeted online advertisements. Discussion: None. Vote: All ayes. The motion carried.
9. PUBLIC COMMENT
There were no public comments.
The next meeting will be held at 4:00 pm on Wednesday, February 20, 2018 at Neighborhood Connections
at 5000 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland OH 44103.
10. ADJOURNMENT
Motion by Trustee Miller, seconded by Trustee Hanson, to adjourn the meeting. Discussion: None. Vote:
all ayes. The motion carried. The meeting was adjourned at 5:17 pm.
Ms. Harris informed the Board that there was one final board action. The Board moved a motion to
reconvene the Board meeting.
Motion by Trustee Hanson, seconded by Trustee Miller, to convene the meeting. Discussion: None. Vote:
all ayes. The motion carried. The meeting was reconvened at 5:17 pm.
Ms. Harris asked the Board to approve the personnel report.
Motion by Trustee Hanson, seconded by Trustee Miller, to approve the personal report. Discussion: None.
Vote: All ayes. The motion carried.
Motion by Trustee Hanson, seconded by Trustee Miller, to adjourn the meeting. Discussion: None. Vote:
all ayes. The motion carried. The meeting was adjourned at 5:18 pm.

Charna Sherman, President, Board of Trustees
Attest:
Gwendolyn Garth, Secretary, Board of Trustees

 Interim Executive Director’s Report
Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees
February 20, 2019

Welcome to our first CAC Board meeting of 2019.
I look forward to seeing everyone on the 20th, where we’ll be hosted by our longtime partners:
Neighborhood Connections (NC): 5000 Euclid Ave, Cleveland, OH.
Our annual grant to NC helps ensure that public funds support resident-led arts and culture projects and
community organizing in Cleveland and East Cleveland. Their team is also our partner in our quarterly Arts
& Culture Network Nights, which have become energizing meet-ups for people to gather together and spark
change in their communities. I invite you to participate at our next Network Night on the 28th of this month,
hosted at the Agora Ballroom.
Today’s meeting should be straight-forward and relatively short.
There are two grantmaking actions before you for your approval. Both are already included in the 2019
budget and outlined in our 2019 team objectives.


Support for Artists’ Learning Lab grants: 12 grants to support artist-nonprofit projects, stemming
from their participation in the Center for Performance and Civic Practice’s Artist Learning Lab.



ioby grant: to support resident-led arts and culture projects throughout the County.

We’ll also get to hear from CAC-NC grant recipient LatinUs Theater Company during the Connect with
Culture portion of the meeting. Additionally, Board member Gary Hanson will provide an update on the
executive director search process; we look forward to welcoming a new, permanent leader to the team this
spring.
Two other quick reminders:
If you haven’t already, please sign up for a Racial Equity Institute training. Half-day or two-day
sessions are offered bimonthly. CAC is pleased to have 100% staff and strong board participation.
We continue to sponsor all grant recipients (up to five people per organization). See:
http://www.cacgrants.org/impact/equity/rei or let me know if the team can sign you up for a
forthcoming training.
Finally, we anticipate a busy next few months as the team prepares to launch the next cycle of
project and general operating support. See the memos at the end of this packet for planning updates
on: Project Support 2020 and General Operating Support 2020-21. Thanks to Heather, Luis, Dan
and India for leading this work.

I thank you in advance for spending time in the materials and preparing for a positive meeting.

 CAC Board of Trustees Meeting – February 20, 2019
Updates from Staff
Each year, Cuyahoga Arts & Culture staff members identify team objectives to guide our work that are
mindful of the staff team agreements that we have made with one another, and grounded in CAC’s
Mission, Vision & Values. Our team objectives fall into three areas: 1) grantmaking; 2) communication
and raising awareness; and 3) effective teamwork and operations.
What follows is brief update on the progress made since last the Board met in December. View a list
of our 2019 team objectives, which guide our work.

1. GRANTMAKING - Connecting with artists and organizations
General Operating Support Updates
GOS Year-End Reports, Closing Out 2018 and Entering Second Year of 18-19 Funding.
CAC staff are in the process of closing out 2018 General Operating Support grants, and have
received most final reports at this time. Review and approval of these reports releases the final
10% of an organization’s 2018 grant. In addition, GOS recipients submitted 2019 goals. Once
approved, the first 50% of an organization’s 2019 grant will be released as long as CAC is in
receipt of their signed 2019 grant agreement.
Incorporating Cultural Partner Feedback into our Process. In December, all General
Operating Support grant recipients received an email from their program manager regarding the
upcoming application cycle. The email was an informal request for feedback asking organizations
to tell us what is on their mind for the application and 2020-21 grant period. More than half of
survey recipients responded and told us that they are thinking about their future grant amounts,
declining revenue, and continuation of the “steady cohort” model implemented last application
cycle. We are currently in the process of planning outreach and communications to address what
we heard and are working to incorporate the recommendations into the 2020-21 grant process.
See the GOS 2020-21 Planning memo in this packet for additional details.

Project Support Updates
Closing Out 2018 Project Support Grant Cycle. As of December 31st, all organizations
receiving Project Support funding in 2018 should have completed their projects. Once the
organization has completed their project, they have 60 days to submit their final report. All the
final reports related to the Project Support 2018 grant cycle are expected to be submitted by
March 1st. Staff anticipates closing out the 2018 grant cycle with no concerns.
In-Person Report Out for Project Support II. In 2018, Project Support II recipients (grant of
up to $5k) were able to complete their final report through an in-person report out. The purpose of
these gatherings was to provide an opportunity for our grant recipients to speak about their
project with other CAC-funded organizations, and create a space where they could connect with
one another. Staff hosted three report outs for the Project Support 2018 grant cycle. The final
report out for the 2018 grant cycle was on January 16th at Las Tienditas del Mercado. Program
Managers will continue to offer in-person report outs for PSII in 2019 on a quarterly basis. With
our equity primes in mind, the sessions will be held in spaces that are owned or led by individuals
who have been historically marginalized.

 Meetings for New Grant Recipients. CAC staff held five New Grant Recipient Meetings in
January and February. Meetings where held at the Hispanic Alliance, the Van Aken District,
MidTown Development Corporation, Western Reserve Land Conservancy, and Refresh
Collective. All five organizations are new grant recipients. Hosting the meetings at their offices
allowed us to highlight these grant recipients and provide an opportunity for others to connect
with them. The purpose of these meetings was to provide further information to our new grant
recipients about the structure of our grants and their grant requirements. Over 50 individuals
attended these meetings with several meetings at full capacity. Organizations not able to attend a
workshop where able to schedule individual sessions with their program manager.
Project Support Applicant Feedback. In an effort to seek feedback and continue to improve our
grant programs, all 2019 Project Support applicants were surveyed about their experience. In all,
29 organizations responded and the feedback regarding the application process was positive and
constructive. This information will be used to inform the 2020 Project Support grant cycle.
CAC’s Quarterly Arts & Culture Networks Nights Continue in 2019
The first Arts & Culture Network Night of 2019 is
February 28th (6 – 8 p.m.) at the newly restored Agora
Ballroom. CAC’s aim for these sessions is to continue
bringing the arts community together for relationship
building, mutual support and to spark new initiatives
with others. We hope to continue strong attendance at
these sessions and continue the work of engaging more
artists, arts leaders, and residents to take an active role
in facilitating. Please join us!
Neighborhood Connections, our co-hosts in this work,
have dedicated a part-time staff person to coordinate
logistics and manage follow up with participants this
year. We are working with Neighborhood Connections
to confirm dates for three additional Arts & Culture
Network Nights for late May, August and November.

More than 75 people attended the last Arts
& Culture Network Night at Near West
Theatre (October 2018)

Continued Grantmaking Partnership with Neighborhood Connections
CAC is in the second year of a two-year, $150,000 grant to Neighborhood Connections (a
program of the Cleveland Foundation) to co-fund grassroots arts and culture projects in the cities
of Cleveland and East Cleveland. The next deadline to apply for a Neighbor Up Action Grant is
March 1. Please help to spread the word and encourage residents in Cleveland or East Cleveland
to apply!
Since 2013, CAC’s annual investment of $75,000 in Neighborhood Connections’ grantmaking
has co-funded the work of over 300 grassroots arts & culture organizations. This work is separate
from our work with Neighborhood Connections to co-host Arts & Culture Network Night. We
look forward to further highlighting this partnership at the February Board meeting, and we are
grateful to Neighborhood Connections for hosting the meeting at their offices.

 New Opportunity: Supporting Resident-Led Arts & Culture Projects with ioby
Building off of on-going conversations with ioby (an innovative crowdfunding platform for
community projects), CAC staff recommends a grant of $60,000 to support resident-led arts and
culture projects throughout Cuyahoga County. See the memo in this Board packet for more
details and how this initiative differs from other CAC grant programs.
Racial Equity Institute Learning Opportunities for our Partner
In 2018, 185 people representing 68 CAC-funded organizations participated in the Racial Equity
Institute trainings. CAC will continue to offer free admission to participate in learning sessions by
the Racial Equity Institute, in partnership with Cleveland Neighborhood Progress and ThirdSpace
Action Lab. All CAC-funded organizations are invited to send up to five staff, board members, or
volunteers to one of the Groundwater workshops in 2019. Organizations who have attended REI
in the past can opt to send two staff, board members, or volunteers to one of the Phase I
workshops in 2019. Interested in learning more or participating in an REI session? Contact Luis
Gomez at lgomez@cacgrants.org.
Support for Artists Updates
Learning Lab Complete, Civic Practice Projects Begin. Following three full-day sessions, the
23 participants of CPCP’s Learning Lab (12 local artists, 11 representatives of communityfocused nonprofits) have entered into partnerships to carry out Civic Practice Projects in 2019. As
outlined in the enclosed memo, CAC recommends $90,000 in grants ($7,500 to each) to support
the co-created arts and culture projects. View the memo for additional details about recommended
grant.
Support for Artist Grant Partners Gathering. At their request, representatives from the six
Support for Artists Partner organizations (Cleveland Public Theatre, Cleveland Arts Prize,
Hispanic Business Center, Karamu House, LAND studio, SPACES) and artist Network Leaders
gathered at Las Tienditas del Mercado in Clark-Fulton on January 23. Participants shared their
projects with each other and discussed ways to connect artists to these opportunities and
networks. Participants also discussed ways for their projects to intersect with each other.
2. COMMUNICATIONS / Connecting with residents
ClevelandArtsEvents.com Artists Network
CAC is excited to announce that we now have
more than 100 artists on the listing at
clevelandartsevents.com/artist.
All artists with approved profiles have
received a $25 cash card just for signing up.
As we strive to continue to grow our network
of artists, we will use social media and our
network of organizations and artists to spread
the word about this resource. We have also
had growing interest from CAC grant
recipients who wish to use the artist listing to
connect and share opportunities.

 If you know an artist who is interested in getting connected, encourage them to visit
www.clevelandartsevents.com/artists today.
Artist Profiles on ClevelandArtsEvents.com/artist. More than
100 Cuyahoga County artists are now featured on the site.

Media Partnerships Shine the Spotlight on CAC Grant Recipients
The year started with energy as we launched a new media partnership designed to highlight the
work of CAC-funded organizations and their
events listed on ClevelandArtsEvents.com. CAC’s
Luis Gomez joined Hollie and Joe on WKYC
Channel 3’s Live on Lakeside program in January
to promote Cleveland Arts Events and share about
upcoming events. This monthly partnership will
allow CAC to reach new audiences and connect
more residents to the programs and events we
fund. Watch the video.
In addition, CAC continued its media partnership
with Fresh Water Cleveland. Building off of our
work in 2018, this serves as an additional space to
tell stories of CAC-funded programs and to shed light on lesser-known organizations which make
up our robust arts and culture community. For example, in January, the feature highlighted the
significance of Martin Luther King, Jr. Day to our arts and culture community, and how it is
honored or celebrated by select CAC-funded organizations. We look forward to continuing to
broad our reach thorough this channel in 2019. Read the story.
Launched New Tools to Raise Awareness
CAC is pleased to offer our partners a toolkit of
modest free resources help let residents know when
programming was funded in part by Cuyahoga Arts
& Culture. CAC grant recipients are encouraged to
request free materials for their use, including rack
cards, posters, yard signs, pens, post-it notes, and
annual reports. By leveraging these tools, CACfunded organizations spread the word about how
public funding for arts and culture is strengthening
the community.
Media Placements
In addition to consistent crediting for Cuyahoga Arts
& Culture in the media by our partners, below is a sampling of recent media clips focused on
CAC’s work:
 Cuyahoga Arts & Culture announces new grants to support local artists in 2019
“(CAC), one of the largest local public funders for arts and culture in the U.S., will invest
almost $400,000 in grants to Cuyahoga County nonprofits that support and celebrate
local artists in 2019. (December 12, 2018) – Crain’s Cleveland Business


Cuyahoga Arts & Culture grantees to honor Martin Luther King Jr.'s impact in
CLE and beyond “Many Cuyahoga Arts & Culture partner organizations will celebrate
as well, with many offering free admission, events, and performances honoring King’s
legacy. Here’s a look at King’s local influence in the 1960s and some of the events
planned for Monday. (January 17, 2019) – Fresh Water Cleveland

 See a full list of media placements since CAC’s last Board meeting.
3. BUILDING INTERNAL CAPACITY / Effective Teamwork and Operations

Team Updates
We’ll miss you, Roshi! In early January, our teammate Roshi Ahmadian moved to Chicago to
take
an exciting new job at a private family foundation. We miss Roshi already – and her ability to
manage projects at CAC – but are thrilled for her and congratulate her on her new adventure.
Summer Internship Opportunity: Join the CAC team. We look forward to bringing a
communications intern to join our team again this summer. This person will support the efforts to
raise awareness of CAC-funded activities through ClevelandArtsEvents.com, including social
media activities and content creation. Visit www.ClevelandArtsEvents.com/classified for details.

Racial Equity Work Ongoing
Our team continues to use our equity prompts to guide our staff decision-making and daily
practice. See www.cacgrants.org/equity. In addition, we are working closely with our colleagues
at the Gund and Cleveland foundations to explore ways we can learn and act together. Last year
this resulted in a co-sponsored training for dozens of local funders in partnership with
RaceForward and Grantmakers in the Arts. In 2019, we hope to build off this momentum by
providing racial equity resources and new opportunities for our shared grant recipients.

 FINANCIAL UPDATE
2018 Unaudited Results
Revenue. Final, unaudited tax revenue for 2018 was $13,799,929. Tax revenue for the year was
$400,071 (2.8%) below forecast and 5.0% ($733,102) lower than 2017 tax receipts. Interest
revenue was $267,677.
Expenditure. Final, unaudited expenditures for FY2018 were $13,432,842. This figure is
$1,042,158 under budget for the year. This is a result of several factors which include the timing
of funding programs for individual artists and neighborhood-based programming as well as open
staff positions. The addition to the reserve in 2018 was $643,006.
Annual Audit. The Local Government Services division of the Ohio Auditor of State began work
on CAC’s GAAP conversion for 2018 in early January and will finish the conversion in February.
We expect the annual audit to begin in March and to conclude by June 30.
2019 YTD
Revenue. Tax revenue through January 31 was $937,849. This figure is $198,565 (17.47%)
below estimate. Interest revenue through January was $15,962.
Expenditure. The majority of CAC’s budget is comprised of grants which were approved in
2018. These grants are accrued at the beginning of the year and recognized on the balance sheet.
Non-grant expenditures for January were $70,678 and are tracking $18,349 below budget
primarily due to timing.
Investments. As of January 31, CAC inactive monies are invested as follows:



STAR Ohio: $5,164,117 (yield 2.55%)
RedTree Investment Group: $15,472,631 (target yield 1.30%)

How Does CAC Forecast Its Tax Revenue?
CAC’s forecast for annual tax revenue is calculated by using a three-year look back model. We calculate
the average change in tax receipts, year-over-year, for each of the past three years to get the average yearover-year decrease, and then multiply the prior year’s tax receipts adjusted by the average percentage
decrease. For 2019, this model calls for an estimated reduction in tax receipts of 4.75% over 2018.

Year
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019 Est Rev

Rev
15,986,647
14,767,137
14,533,031
13,799,929
13,144,064

Decrease

$
$
$
$
$

Formula

$13,799,929 * 95.25% = $13,144,064

$
(1,219,510)
$
(234,106)
$
(733,102)
3 yr avg decrease

Change %
92.37%
98.41%
94.96%
95.25%
Avg. Annual
Decrease
4.75%

 Cuyahoga Arts & Culture
Through 1/31/2019

Actual YTD
Ordinary Revenue/Expenditures
Revenue
Excise Tax
Interest
Other revenue
Total Revenue
Expenditures
Arts & Cultural Programming
Salaries, Wages and Benefits
Grant Panel Expenses
Grant Management Expenses
Awareness Activities
Grants**
Total A&C Exenditures
General & Administrative
Salaries, Wages and Benefits
Facilities, Supplies, Equipment
Professional Fees
Depreciation
Total G&A Expenditures
Total Expenditures
Net Ordinary Revenue

$
Over/Under
Budget

Budget YTD

%
of Budget

$
$
$
$

937,849
15,962
953,811

$
$
$
$

1,136,414
14,000
1,150,414

$
$
$
$

(198,565)
1,962
(196,603)

82.53%
114.01%

$
$
$
$
$
$

20,280
330
23,694
12,090,526
12,134,830

$
$
$
$
$
$

23,875
2,200
25,000
12,107,544
12,158,619

11,832
9,918
4,625

$
$
$

17,977
6,497
13,800

(3,595)
(1,870)
(1,306)
(17,018)
(23,789)
(6,145)
3,421
(9,175)

84.9%

$
$
$

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

(11,900)
(35,689)
(160,914)

$
$
$
$

26,374
12,161,204
(11,207,393)

$
$
$
$

** Outstanding 2018 and 2019 grant obligations are on the balance sheet.

38,274
12,196,893
(11,046,479)

82.9%

15.0%
94.8%
99.9%
99.8%
65.8%
152.7%
33.5%
68.9%
99.7%

 Cuyahoga Arts & Culture
Balance Sheet as of

Jan 31, 19
ASSETS
Current Assets
Checking/Savings
KeyBank
RedTree (U.S.Bank)
Star Ohio
Total Checking/Savings
Accounts Receivable
11000 · Accounts Receivable
Total Accounts Receivable
Total Current Assets
Fixed Assets
15000 · Furniture and Equipment
15001 · Software and Webdesign
17000 · Accumulated Depreciation

78,536.26
15,472,630.53
5,164,116.50
20,715,283.29

937,849.45
937,849.45
21,653,132.74
75,222.56
10,000.00
-80,849.10

Total Fixed Assets
TOTAL ASSETS
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Other Current Liabilities

4,373.46
21,657,506.20

24000 · Payroll Liabilities
24200 · GOS Grants
24300 · Project Support Grants
Total Other Current Liabilities
Total Current Liabilities
Total Liabilities
Equity
32000 · Retained Earnings
Net Income
Total Equity
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY

1,693.46
10,942,789.00
2,183,307.00
13,127,789.46
13,127,789.46
13,127,789.46
19,737,109.29
-11,207,392.55
8,529,716.74
21,657,506.20

 Month
JANUARY
FEBRUARY
MARCH
APRIL
MAY
JUNE
JULY
AUGUST
SEPTEMBER
OCTOBER
NOVEMBER
DECEMBER
TOTALS

CIGARETTE TAX RECEIPTS FY 18 VS FY 19 YTD
2018
2019
2018
2019
$VAR
$
1,489,490.74 $
937,849.45 $
(551,641.29)
$
675,154.53
$
1,122,153.58
$
1,094,271.01
$
975,737.92
$
2,399,933.00
$
227,176.60
$
1,225,670.88
$
1,121,033.98
$
1,211,208.69
$
1,221,272.88
$
1,036,824.70
$
14,533,030.97 $
937,849.45 $
(551,641.29)

18-19% VAR
-37%

-37.0%

 MEMORANDUM
Date:
To:
From:
Re:

February 20, 2019
CAC Board of Trustees
Heather Johnson-Banks, program manager
Jake Sinatra, special projects & communications manager
CPCP Learning Lab: Grants to support artist and nonprofit civic practice projects

Board Action Requested: At the February 20 meeting, we recommend a slate of 12 grants to Cuyahoga
County nonprofits to support 12 artists through co-created Civic Practice Projects. The total investment
will be in the amount of $90,000 ($7,500 per project). As part of the Support for Artists grant program,
at least $4,500 of each grant will fund the artist’s fees and expenses.
Background
In June 2018, the Board of Trustees approved a partnership with The Center for Performance and Civic Practice
(CPCP) to bring their “Learning Lab” program to Cuyahoga County. Subsequently, CPCP recruited and
selected 12 artists to work with community-focused nonprofits for the program, which took place from late
November 2018 to early January 2019. See artist bios at the conclusion of this memo.
CPCP’s Learning Lab provided three full-day gatherings where artists deepened their knowledge around
equitable, community-based work. Additionally, local mentor organizations (LAND studio, Cleveland Public
Theatre, Cleveland Neighborhood Progress, Djapo Cultural Arts, Twelve Literary Arts) helped to ensure the
program had local relevance and tied into existing resources. View an overview of the program.
This pilot program responds directly to artists’ requests for: professional development; increased equity; and
stronger connections with institutions, including CAC-funded nonprofits.
Now that the Lab is complete, the participant pairs will implement a Civic Practice project in 2019. CAC will
work with grantees while CPCP continues to provide online and in-person coaching sessions to support project
implementation.
What are “Civic Practice” Projects?
Center for Performance and Civic Practice is a resource for artists and communities to develop greater local
capacity for arts-based community-led transformation. CPCP has defined a spectrum of artmaking that includes
Civic Practice, where artists co-design project with the public; the intention is to serve a partner’s (nonprofit’s)
self-defined need or vision. Promoting civic practice projects among artists and nonprofits is the goal of the
Learning Lab.
By funding the projects conceptualized by participants in CPCP’s Learning Lab, CAC is investing in artists to
leverage their creative skills and abilities to work with nonprofits and benefit the community in new ways.

 Board Action
We recommend to the Board for approval a slate of 12 grants to 11 Cuyahoga County nonprofits to support 12
Civic Practice projects. The total investment will be in the amount of $90,000 ($7,500 per project). All
organizations are existing grant recipients (vetted through CAC’s Project Support program).
Organization

Artist Partner

Project

Grant

1

Hispanic Alliance

Will Sanchez

Latinx Arts & Culture of Hispanic Alliance
(community engagement and public art)

$7,500

2

FutureHeights

Tom Masaveg

Cedar Lee Mini-Park Placemaking Project
(connecting the community to nature to transform a
public space)

$7,500

3

The Hummingbird
Project (Cleveland
Seed Bank)

Gina
Washington

Seed to Seed (creating a mobile art piece / resource to
clean seeds, culminating in community gatherings)

$7,500

4

Mt. Pleasant NOW

Mr. Soul

Mt. Pleasant Asomdwee Arts (community peace mural
inside Mt. Pleasant NOW)

$7,500

5

Lexington-Bell
Community Center

Archie Green

6

Burten, Bell, Carr
Development, Inc.

Michele
Crawford

7

FrontLine Service

Oluremi Oliver

Creating Community by Hearing Each Other
(storytelling circles in a safe, trauma-informed, space)

$7,500

8

FrontLine Service

Elaine Hullihen

Stitching the Fabric of Community with Movement
and Art (sensitive movement workshops resulting in the
creation of a group visual art piece)

$7,500

9

Campus District Inc.

Gary Williams

Prospect Avenue Bridge Project (public beautification
and community building process)

$7,500

10

MidTown Cleveland

Lexy Lattimore

MidTown Community Ballet (inter-generational
history sharing and performance)

$7,500

11

Shaker Heights
Development Corp.

Kenya Woods

Community Building Through Dance (exploration of
dance to reinforce Van Aken District as an equitable and
inclusive gathering place)

$7,500

12

Greater Cleveland
Neighborhood
Centers Association

Isabel AxonSanchez

P4SS Community Art Connection (arts exploration for
students and families, resulting in a community project)

$7,500

Total

My Violin Weighs a Ton: A Hip-Hop Orchestra
(interactive music education and culminating concert
with Lexington-Bell students)
Kinsman/Central Neighborhood Messaging and
Branding (strategy for public art to brand the
neighborhoods and design positive messaging)

$7,500

$7,500

$90,000

Next Steps
Following Board approval, CAC will issue grant agreements and Civic Practice projects will take place between
March and December 2019. Staff will work to ensure project activities are documented and Cuyahoga County
residents are invited to participate or experience the projects as they come to fruition.
The $90,000 in grants is a planned Support for Artists expenditure as part of the approved 2019 budget. Artists
and the partnering organizations are excited about building on the learning from the Learning Lab sessions and
staying connected as a cohort throughout the project implementation phase. We invite the Board to join the
CPCP Learning Lab participants at an informal gathering in April 2019; details forthcoming.

 APPENDIX: CPCP’s Learning Lab – Artist Partners

Isabel Axon-Sanchez - working with Greater Cleveland Neighborhood Centers Association
Isabel Axon-Sanchez is a native Clevelander who received her BFA in oil painting from
Edinboro University of Pennsylvania. She has a background working with children and has
completed field work teaching art in Philadelphia and in Erie city schools. She has also worked
with children at Mercy Center for Women in Erie and at Monarch Boarding Academy in
University Heights. Most recently, she ran the pottery program at Camp Wise. Isabel seeks to
expand her art practice by moving out of the studio and incorporating the community in new
ways.

Michele Crawford – working with Burton, Bell Carr Development, Inc.
Michele is a designer based in Cleveland, Ohio. She studied Interior Architecture and
Architecture at Ohio University and The School of the Art Institute of Chicago and currently
works as a Project Manager at Cuyahoga Community College. She serves on the Board of
Directors at Rainey Institute as Secretary and also the Board of Trustees of Midtown Cleveland
where she lives and plays. She believes that design changes our world and ultimately dreams
to make design services more accessible to all communities. She is passionate about people,
process, performance and most recently, painting!
Kevin "Mr. Soul" Harp – working with Mt. Pleasant NOW
Kevin “Mr. Soul” Harp is a graphic artist, illustrator, and painter born to Cleveland’s Lee and
Harvard community. He established his career in Atlanta’s music scene via Patchwerk
Recording Studios, working with Interscope Records, Def Jam and affiliated recording artists
and athletes. He became a member of Cleveland graffiti crew, D.E.F. (Doin’ Everything
Funky), which later evolved into C.S.T. (Cleveland Scribe Tribe). He brought his street art
experience to Atlanta and became a founding member of the art collective “City Of Ink, where
Mr. Soul helped to build a foundation for underserved creatives. Today Mr. Soul is back in
Cleveland, applying the City Of Ink model to his Cleveland Skribe Tribe to create a new
movement for young, aspiring artists.
Archie Green – working with Lexington-Bell Community Center
Dream Chaser. MC. Creator Extraordinaire. Cleveland, Ohio rapper Archie Green is a dream
believer. But more than that, he’s a “dream, then wake up and go-getter.” Archie is also a
Mental Health Advocate. His single about his experience with depression, "Layers," which
premiered at VICE.com, generated 25,000 streams in 2 weeks. In 2016, Archie began to host
dialogues on mental illness with Peel Dem Layers Back, a Hip-Hop centered workshop to
promote mental health awareness. Archie has been featured on various other local, national
and international media outlets. Recently, he was selected as one of Cleveland Magazine's
2018 Most Interesting People.

Elaine Hullihen – working with FrontLine Service
A northeast Ohio native, Elaine Hullihen received her BFA in Sculpture with a minor in Theatre
from Kent State University in 2007. Since then she has participated in residency programs in
Germany, Scotland and Chile. She has regularly presented projects in the Cleveland area since
2014 while also exhibiting her work in Kent, OH and Pittsburgh, PA. In addition to
performative, collaborative or fiber-based work, she has also expanded her artistic practice to
include teaching yoga to sculpt experiences into opportunities for connection to one's own inner
curiosity and creativity.

 Alexandria Lattimore – working with MidTown Cleveland
Alexandria “Lexy” Lattimore is a ballet dancer, performer, teacher, and director. She works
with marginalized communities to create “ballets.” These ballets are creative works involving
movement that are intended for performance. Lexy’s work is heavily rooted in oral history and
healing practices. She began studying classical ballet with Judith Koeckhoven in
Massachusetts. Lexy graduated Cum Laude from Duke University, where she majored in
history and received honors in dance. She moved to Cleveland to perform with Verb Ballets.
Currently, she teaches ballet at Karamu House and has choreographed works for Cleveland
School of the Arts and Cleveland Public Theater.
Tom Masaveg – working with FutureHeights
Tom Masaveg feels that the benefits of creativity are endless. As an individual, he turns to
creative expression for self-development because he can use the arts to explore thoughts and
emotions or to transform the way he presents himself to the world. Beyond personal
experience, Tom sees creativity as a sharable experience that can impact and empower
communities. As a Clevelander who moved to the forest to teach and then returned to the city,
Tom finds opportunities to connect urban society with concepts from nature that can transform
perception and inspire positive change in individuals and groups.

Oluremi Ann Oliver – working with FrontLine Service
Oluremi is a storyteller and poet who often uses African cultural traditions, as well as current
events, to inform, enhance, and invigorate each storytelling session. Using her own poetry as
well as that of other third world poets, she wraps them in the fabric of stories so that each session
becomes a shared experience of remembrance, comfort, hope and victory. She has shared her
stories and poetry nationally, as well as internationally in Ghana, Nigeria and Kenya. Her focus,
most recently, has been on creating safe, respectful sharing ‘circles’ for senior citizens in which
participants share personal stories.

Will "Topiltzin" Sanchez – working with Hispanic Alliance
Born Guillermo Sanchez Jr., Will "Topiltzin" Sanchez is an artist/activist recently named
among Cleveland Magazine’s Most Interesting People for 2019. Nominated for the COSE
Business & Innovation Award, named to several boards including Julia De Burgos Cultural
Arts Center, Hispanic Roundtable Community Development Co-chair, Metro Hospital VIC and
several other endeavors have left a lasting impression on collaborators and clients. Allowing
him to continue to put us in a place visually where we cannot imagine nor have the ability to
comprehend. To create with everyday reality, to plant a seed that nothing is impossible and
give a glimpse of the unknown.

Gina Washington – working with The Hummingbird Project (Cleveland Seed Bank)
Gina W. was born and raised in Cleveland and graduated with a MFA in Photography from
Ohio University in Athens, Ohio. She considers herself “a Child of the Universe” and has
traveled to many places collecting images connecting artists and exhibiting her work nationally
and internationally. She creates art “by any means necessary” and is the founder of the Black
Female Artist Collective and creator of Mateza Gallery LLC on Etsy and at Cooperative
Cleveland on Larchmere Boulevard. She co-founded a group called The Visit Arts Collective
which creates experiential exhibitions, installations and educational programs incorporating
music, poetry, dance and the visual arts to engage the participant and challenge their notions
of the Black experience through the arts.

 Gary R. Williams – working with Campus District Inc.
Gary R. Williams was born in Cleveland, Ohio. Like most visual artists, Gary has always
liked to draw. The challenge of creating great art has been his driving passion for more than
50 years. After graduating from college with a B.A. in Psychology, Gary enrolled in Cooper
School of Art. However, he dropped out after a year or so and applied to law school when
he became a father. Gary practiced law for thirty years, but never stopped painting and
trying to improve his skills as an artist. Gary has won a number of awards for his artwork
including the CPAC 2013 Creative Work Force Fellowship. Presently, Gary is doing art
full-time while volunteering as executive director of a small arts nonprofit.
Kenya R. Woods – working with Shaker Heights Development Corp.
Kenya Woods, a native of Cleveland, Ohio holds more than 20 years of experience in dance
performance, choreography, teaching, and leadership. She holds a degree in Dance from
Tennessee State University. Some of her dance education credits include Alvin Ailey
American Dance Center, Dance New Amsterdam, and North Coast Ballet Theater. She has
worked nationally and internationally at regional dance companies, universities and school
systems as an educator, performer, and choreographer. Kenya teaches dance to students of
all ages and continues to lead programs that help cultivate technique, artistry, body
awareness and empowerment and appreciation for dance.

 MEMORANDUM
Date:
To:
From:
Re:

February 20, 2019
CAC Board of Trustees
Dan McLaughlin, program manager
Grant to ioby for co-funding arts & culture projects countywide

Board Action Requested: At the February 20 meeting, staff recommends the Board approve a
$60,000 grant to ioby for a match-fund that will support resident-led arts & culture projects
throughout Cuyahoga County. This work stems from our 2016 community-wide planning process
and is accounted for in the 2019 budget.

Background
In 2016, the national nonprofit called ioby (in our back yards) established a base of operations in Cleveland.
Since then, ioby has provided a crowd-sourced fundraising platform for resident-led, community projects
throughout Cuyahoga County. Over 180 resident leaders have worked with ioby’s local staff to plan and
crowdfund their projects. For more information on ioby: www.ioby.com/cleveland
Examples of projects supported through ioby include: the Tamir Rice Afrocentric Cultural Center; a
professional land survey and architectural plans for the future Native American Cultural Garden; and restoration
of a beloved mural in La Villa Hispana.
ioby offers a match-funding model that allows funders, like CAC, to provide dollar-for-dollar matching funds
in response to successful crowdfunding for a project. This model encourages more residents to take action on
their project ideas and makes it easier to reach their fundraising goals. The Cleveland Foundation, Cleveland
Climate Action Fund and Neighborhood Connections have all offered match funds through ioby. ioby also
receives operating support from the Saint Luke’s Foundation, Gund Foundation, and Cleveland Foundation.

Proposed Match Fund & Board Action
In 2016, as a part of our own organizational planning, CAC hosted conversations thought the County to ask
residents “how CAC can best support the creative life of residents today and for years to come.” This led CAC
to recognize the importance of more equitably supporting the full ecosystem of arts and culture in our
community, including finding ways to support arts and culture that is for, by and close to home for all residents
throughout the County. See future.cacgrants.org for more.
ioby is one tactic to help us address what we learned in our community listening work. As such, we recommend
approval of a grant to ioby for $60,000 to create a match-fund for arts & cultural projects on ioby’s platform.
This partnership will support between 10 to 25 grassroots and/or resident-led arts & cultural projects throughout
Cuyahoga County. Note: our separate investment in Neighborhood Connections is limited to supporting
resident-led projects in Cleveland and East Cleveland.

 Funding for this ioby grant is already budgeted for, and draws from $195,000 that the Board approved for
initiatives stemming from CAC’s community listening. It will not impact current General Operating Support or
Project Support programs or grant amounts.
Eligible arts & cultural projects must take place in Cuyahoga County and be open to its residents. Projects
supported by other CAC programs will be ineligible to receive funds through CAC’s ioby match-fund. CAC’s
staff will work with ioby to determine if projects are eligible to receive matching funds.
ioby’s match-funding model will allow CAC to further achieve its mission by:




providing access to financial support for unincorporated groups, individuals and artists.
supporting projects and people countywide.
offering timely, responsive funding throughout 2019.

An investment in ioby also helps build the long-term fundraising capacity of grassroots arts leaders and artists,
encouraging them to build a donor base to fund their work in the future. ioby’s Cleveland-based staff offers
project leaders access to one-on-one fundraising coaching, volunteer sourcing, an online library of resources
and connection to a network of experts.

Budget & Next Steps
The budget for this grant includes:



$50,000 for the Arts & Culture match-fund. CAC will match 1:1 for every dollar raised, up to $5,000
per project until funds are depleted.
$10,000 to enable the ioby team to implement the match fund. This includes outreach, coaching and
reporting provided by the local office/staff.

Upon Board approval, CAC staff will work with ioby to roll out the online crowdfunding platform. CAC and
ioby staff will conduct, outreach, and solicit and develop project ideas from resident-leaders, grassroots arts
groups, and artists.

 MEMORANDUM
Date: February 20, 2019
To:
CAC Board of Trustees
From: Meg Harris, director of administration
Jill Paulsen, interim executive director
Re:
Approval of Updated Credit Card Policy

On November 2, 2018, the Ohio Legislature passed House Bill 312 that established internal control models
for political subdivisions which utilize a credit card account. The attached policy and procedures are an
update to the Credit Card Policy that CAC initially approved in 2009.
In conjunction with this update to the Credit Card Policy, it is also recommended that the Board take action
to name Meg Harris as the Fiscal Officer’s designee. We recommend the Board take this step at this time
because the new law has language that specifically addresses general control and possession of the credit
card (see ORC 9.21 (C)) and having a designee will allow us to continue to manage the credit card in a
manner which is effective for CAC.
Two actions are requested of the Board:
1. A motion to approve Meg Harris as the fiscal officer’s designee for Cuyahoga Arts & Culture.
2. A motion to approve the following Credit Card Policy and accompanying Credit Card
Responsibility and Use Procedures.

 CUYAHOGA ARTS & CULTURE
POLICY STATEMENT

SUBJECT:
Credit Card Policy
EFFECTIVE DATE: February 2, 2019

The Board recognizes the efficiency and convenience afforded the day-to-day operation of CAC through
the use of credit cards under the supervision of the director of administration. However, credit cards are
not to be used to circumvent the general purchasing procedures of CAC.
The Board authorizes the fiscal officer (per ORC 3381.10, the executive director is the fiscal officer of
CAC) or fiscal officer’s designee to review available credit card accounts to determine which account and
account provider best meets the needs of CAC. The fiscal officer, or their designee, will determine how
many accounts and cards shall be issued, and establish a process for credit card reissuance or cancellation.
1. Credit cards will be established in the name Cuyahoga Arts & Culture and the specific name of an
individual. A maximum of no more than $5,000 will be established for individual cards.
2. Credit cards may only be used only with permission from the fiscal officer or their designee.
Credit card use may be extended to any employee of CAC provided the purpose of such use is
approved by the fiscal officer or their designee.
3. All credit cards will remain under the general possession and control of the director of
administration (fiscal officer designee) and shall be utilized by other staff on an as-needed basis
with prior approval of their manager for any purchases.
4. Credit cards may be used for online purchases of office supplies, marketing/advertising on social
media platforms, monthly and annual online software services, subscriptions, memberships and
telecom expenses. Additionally, credit cards may be used for CAC-related professional
development including conference registration, associated transportation, hotel reservations and
other travel expenses. All use of credit cards for these approve expenditures must be approved by
the fiscal officer or their designee in advance of purchase.
5. All credit card statements are sent directly to the director of administration (Fiscal officer’s
designee). The director of administration shall keep a record of all credit card use.
6. For each purchase made using a credit card, an itemized receipt indicating the amount paid, the
vendor, and the goods/services purchased must be submitted to the Fiscal officer or their designee
promptly following the purchase.
7. If a credit card is lost or stolen, or if CAC staff become aware of unauthorized or fraudulent use
of any of CAC’s credit card accounts, the same must be reported immediately to the Fiscal officer
or their designee.
8. Prior to initial receipt of a credit card, each individual must agree to and sign the Credit Card
Responsibility and Use Procedures.
9. CAC will not obtain or maintain any debit cards.

 10. On an annual basis, if CAC utilizes a credit card that offers a reward program, the Fiscal officer
(or the fiscal officer’s designee) will submit a report to the Board of Trustees regarding all credit
card awards received by CAC.
The use of the credit card for the following items is considered unauthorized use and classified as credit
card misuse:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Expenditures not specifically authorized by this policy;
Purchase of personal goods or services for an employee, their spouse, children or anyone employed or
not employed by the Board and attending a business function;
Payment of any fines, penalties or personal liabilities incurred by the employee or anyone else;
Alcoholic beverages or tobacco;
Fuel for use in a personal vehicle;
Entertainment expenses, including pay-per-view movie charges and/or
Cash advances.

Persons using a credit card for personal, non-authorized purposes or undocumented expenditures shall be
held personally responsible for those expenditures. Misuse of the credit card is subject to disciplinary
procedures, including termination. An employee or officer of the Board who knowingly misuses a CAC
credit card account also is in violation of State criminal law.

 Credit Card Responsibility and Use Procedures
A credit card account has been established to meet the needs of your department for incidental purchases.
Upon receipt of proper documentation and itemized receipt, credit card expenditures will be paid through
the fiscal officer’s office.
Conditions of Use. Expenses may be incurred with the credit card only if all of the following conditions
are met:
1. Expenditures must be within the guidelines of the particular activity of your department and budget.
The expenditure may only be made after the approval of your manager. The credit card is not to be
used for any personal expenses.
2. Expenditures to be paid must be less than your credit limit of $5,000. There are no exceptions.
3. Proper documentation to support the expenditure must be sent to the fiscal officer or their designee
prior to receipt of the monthly statement.
a. Proper documentation is to include:
i. Itemized paid receipt indicating the amount paid, the vendor, and an itemized description of the
purchase.
ii. A hardcopy print-out for any items ordered online.
b. Examples of documentation not allowed:
i. Non-itemized cash register receipts.
ii. Handwritten requests for reimbursement without receipts or other verification.
4. CAC is exempt from sales tax, and all reasonable efforts should be made to ensure that sales tax is not
charged by vendors in connection with purchases made via credit card. A tax exemption certificate is
available in the fiscal officer’s office.
Safekeeping. You are responsible for the safekeeping of the credit card. You shall not permit anyone else
to use the credit card or disclose to anyone (other than the vendor/merchant in connection with a
purchase) the card account number, CVV, or other pertinent account information.
Unauthorized Use. If you become aware of any unauthorized or fraudulent use of the credit card, or if
the credit card is lost or stolen, you must immediately report same to the Fiscal.
No Right to Credit Card. The credit card is issued to you on a temporary basis, and remains the sole
property of the financial institution from which it was issued. The right to use the credit card may be
revoked at any time without notice by the issuing financial institution or by CAC’s Executive Director
and fiscal officer. You must immediately return the credit card to CAC upon termination of your
employment with CAC or in the event of a change in your position to a position not authorized to use the
credit card.
Personal Responsibility. You are personally responsible for any unauthorized credit card expenditures
and expenditures made in violation of applicable CAC policy.
Policy. In addition to the terms set out herein, use of the credit card is subject to CAC’s Credit Card
Policy.
I have read and fully understand and accept my personal responsibilities and liabilities in regard to the
credit card issued to me, including the terms set out in CAC’s Credit Card Policy. I further acknowledge
that any misuse of the credit card may result in disciplinary action up to and including termination of
employment.
Cardholder Signature: ____________________________________

Date: _________

 MEMORANDUM
Date:
To:
From:
Re:

February 20, 2019
CAC Board of Trustees
Luis Gomez, Dan McLaughlin and Heather Johnson-Banks, program managers
Planning for Project Support 2020 grant program

Executive Summary: This memo serves as an update on planning for Project Support 2020. The
program’s goals, funding criteria and eligibility requirements will remain unchanged. To ensure we
can support a growing pool of applicants within a fixed annual budget of $1.9M, we anticipate
recommending smaller maximum request amounts for both PSI and PSII.
There will be no formal discussion or action taken at the February meeting; as always, we welcome
Board and cultural partner feedback in the coming weeks/months to inform staff work, leading to
the presentation and approval of the Project Support 2020 guidelines at the April 2019 meeting.

Background: Process for Developing Project Support Guidelines
While 2019 has just begun, we’re already busy planning for the next cycle of one of our primary grant
programs: Project Support 2020. The upcoming cycle will mark the twelfth time that CAC offers its annual
Project Support grant program.
Demand for project grants is strong and growing. We anticipate that the number of Project Support 2020
grants will continue to grow, up from the 221 organizations in 2019. It is important to remember that we
are operating under a financial forecasting model (discussed with the Board in 2017) that caps Project
Support at $1.9 million annually. Any guideline recommendations we make to the Board in April will take
this into account.
We look forward to bringing guidelines for both Project Support I and Project Support II (small grants
program) to our April Board meeting, as we do every year. In preparation for a vote on the policies within
the guidelines, program managers surveyed cultural partners, conducted site visits, and benchmarked our
work against peer institutions nationwide.
Goals and Eligibility Requirements Will Remain Consistent for 2020
CAC’s commitment to offering this program remains strong. For 2020, the program’s purpose remains the
same: to provide annual grants to a wide range of organizations producing, creating or presenting arts and
cultural projects that benefit residents throughout Cuyahoga County.
The core program elements will also remain unchanged in 2020. This includes eligibility requirements, the
annual grant period and the use of an outside panel to assess applications. The Project Support funding

 criteria will continue to emphasize public benefit. CAC staff will continue to support applicants with a
robust menu of options, including in-person workshops and one-on-one technical assistance.
Anticipate a Decrease in Maximum Grant Amounts
To ensure we can support a growing pool of applicants within a fixed annual budget of $1.9M, we anticipate
recommending smaller maximum request amounts for both PSI and PSII (current maximum grant amount
for PSI is $30,000; $5,000 for PSII). In the coming weeks, the team will finalize the maximum grant request
amount and include it in the PS 2020 guidelines.
Next Steps
Staff will continue to finalize the PSI and PSII grant guidelines in preparation for the Board’s review and
approval in April. In the interim, we welcome any questions or comments you may have that help us to
shape the policies for the next cycle of our Project Support grant program.

 MEMORANDUM
Date:
To:
From:
Re:

February 20, 2019
CAC Board of Trustees
CAC Staff: Heather Johnson-Banks, Luis Gomez and Dan McLaughlin, program managers
Planning for General Operating Support 2020-21 grant program

Executive Summary: This memo serves as an update on the current planning and strategy for
Cuyahoga Arts & Culture’s next cycle of General Operating Support: GOS 2020-21. There will be
no action taken at the February meeting.
Staff anticipates putting forth guidelines that include the following two recommendations in April:
1) continuing a “steady cohort” application exemption for current GOS grant recipients; and 2)
launching an application for prospective applicants that is based on CAC’s longstanding funding
criteria and eligibility requirements.

Background
In a September 2018 memo, staff shared initial plans for the 2020-21 General Operating Support grant cycle
with the Board. The following is an update on the current planning for the 2020-21 General Operating
Support grant program, in preparation for a vote on the policies within the guidelines this April.
Staying Consistent in 2020-21: Program Goals & Commitment to Grantee Input
CAC’s commitment to General Operating Support remains strong. The GOS program will continue to
provide flexible, substantive, multi-year support to arts and cultural institutions that provide a range of
programs benefiting residents throughout Cuyahoga County.
Informing the recommendations below, program managers have been in regular communication with
current General Operating Support grant recipients throughout 2018 and into 2019. In addition to site visits,
the team surveyed all GOS organizations in December 2018 asking for their thoughts and feedback on the
upcoming 2020-21 grant cycle. They have also benchmarked CAC’s work against peer institutions
nationwide.
Recommendations for 2020-21
In April, staff will bring two, fully-developed recommendations to the Board for its approval. A preview of
these recommendations follows:
Recommendation #1: Continue “Steady Cohort” for Current Grantees
CAC recommends continuing to fund all 61 current GOS recipients for 2020-21, exempting them
from the application process. Grant amounts would be determined by re-running the formula based
on updated organizational financials (Eligible Revenue and Support (ERS) forms for 2016, 17 and

 18) in the fall. These organizations would still be required to set annual goals that align with CAC’s
funding criteria, submit annual financial documentation and complete semi-annual reports.
We define the “steady cohort” as organizations that have a history of four years of consistent
funding, as achieved through either:



GOS 2018-19 and GOS 2015-17; or
GOS 2018-19 and PS16 and PS17

CAC used this “steady cohort” model last cycle and believes it is worth continuing because we
maintain strong, long-term relationships with these organizations, many of whom we’ve funded
consistently for 12 years now. We remain in regular communication with cultural partners,
attending their events, conducting site visits, and offering guidance, as needed. We can continue to
do this important work without requiring organizations to submit applications and be reviewed by
a panel.
Recommendation #2: Issue Guidelines & Hold Panel for New Applicants
CAC must also ensure that there is a mechanism for new entrants into the GOS program. As such,
we will ask that the Board review and approve the GOS 2020-21 guidelines at its April meeting.
The application process would launch in the late spring with applications due in the summer and a
panel for new applicants in the fall of 2019.
Given that the goals of the General Operating Support grant program will remain the same, the key
elements that make up the grant program itself will remain consistent. Once again, the program will
provide two-year grants. The robust technical assistance, funding criteria, eligibility criteria, and
the submission of a SMU DataArts Cultural Data Profile will also remain the same.
CAC will hold a panel in fall of 2019 wherein a diverse group of arts and culture professionals
from outside Northeast Ohio will score applications. Historically, applicants going through our
panel process have experienced a high success rate. Thorough vetting by an outside panel of experts
provides helpful feedback to the organization and CAC staff as we begin a more flexible operating
grant relationship.
A national scan of operating support grant programs reaffirmed that the mathematical formula used
by CAC is standard in the field. Every agency surveyed used a combination of grantee operating
budgets and grant program allocation to determine grant amounts – just as CAC has done. CAC
will continue in-depth discussions with current and potential applicants to the program, as survey
feedback indicated that continued conversation on this subject is warranted. CAC will continue to
use the same formula with the base of grantee operating budgets determined by a three-year average
of the organizational revenue as determined by the Eligible Revenue and Support (ERS) forms.
Next Steps
In the coming weeks, staff will continue to seek feedback from current and potential GOS grant recipients
and work to incorporate these recommendations into the guidelines. We look forward to bringing the Board
fully developed guidelines for its review and approval in April.

 