ALCOHOL, DRUG ADDICTION & MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES BOARD OF CUYAHOGA COUNTY
COMMUNITY RELATIONS & ADVOCACY (CR&A) COMMITTEE
MAY 1, 2019
Committee Members Present: Harvey A. Snider, Esq., Katie Kern-Pilch, ATR-BC, LPC-S, Eugenia Kirkland, LSW,
MSSA, CDCA, Sharon Rosenbaum, MBA
Absent: Reginald C. Blue, Ph.D., Erskine Cade, MBA, Elsie Caraballo
Board Staff Present: Scott Osiecki, C.E.O., Carole Ballard, Carol Krajewski, Linda Lamp, Beth Zietlow-DeJesus
Call to Order: Harvey Snider, Committee Chair, called the meeting to order at 4:00 p.m.
1. Approval of Minutes
The Community Relations & Advocacy Committee minutes from the 3/06/19 meeting were approved as submitted.
2. Legislative Update
Legislation: Beth Zietlow-DeJesus, Director of External Affairs, highlighted several legislative bills itemized by the Ohio
Association of Behavioral Health Authorities (OACBHA) together with a brief description and link to the text/analysis.
The document is attached to the original minutes stored in the Executive Unit.
With regard to the issue of work requirements for people on Medicaid, Mr. Osiecki added that the Board is working with
the County’s Department of Jobs & Family Services to make sure that there are fair work requirements along with the
recognition that some people may not be able to work. It was noted that approximately 36,000 people statewide would
be affected by work requirements out of the 700,000 people who are Medicaid certified.
Governor’s Budget: The state budget is still being reviewed in the House of Representatives. Once the House approves
the budget, it will go to the Senate. Mr. Osiecki has been asked to address the Finance Committee in the Senate and
has invited a mother who lost a son to suicide and also has a son in recovery from opioid abuse to testify before the
committee.
NAMI Day at the Statehouse on May 15: Mr. Snider noted that NAMI Ohio has asked its NAMI members and families
to contact their legislators about vital legislation under consideration. NAMI’s website provides the contact information
and talking points that can be utilized when writing or speaking with legislators. Mr. Osiecki stated that this information
can also be shared through the Board’s social media and website. Ms. Kern-Pilch suggested getting permission to
share the powerful content of letters, displayed in the Ohio Room, that are written by individuals receiving services at
St. Vincent’s Rosary Hall and Adult Stabilization Unit regarding their struggles with addiction and/or mental illness.
Ms. Zietlow-DeJesus noted that she has received 10 affirmative responses from individuals interested in attending
NAMI Day in Columbus on Wednesday, May 15th. Consideration is being given to reserving a bus that will leave the
ADAMHS Board parking lot by 7:30 a.m. A lunch is scheduled for 11:30 a.m. with time to meet with legislators in the
afternoon.
Meet our Legislator Series: On Monday, April 15th, Representative Stephanie Howse, Ohio District 11, came to the
ADAMHS Board to meet with clients, family members, staff, providers and other community members for the Meet
Your Legislators Series. The next meeting in the Legislator Series will be on Monday, June 17, 2019.
Federal SOR (State Opioid Response) Funds: This is a reminder of a recent email when Senators Portman and Brown
announced that more $29.1 million in federal funds were appropriated to help assist with Medication Assisted Treatment
throughout our state. ADAMHS Boards will be responsible for allocating these funds to provider agencies.

1

 Community Relations & Advocacy Committee Minutes

May 1, 2019

3. Renewal of Telephone Advertising
The advertising goal of this funding request is to assist citizens of Cuyahoga County to locate the ADAMHS Board’s
phone number, TTD/TTY number, fax number, street address, 24-Hour Suicide Prevention/Mental Health
Crisis/Information and Referral Line (216-623-6888), Alcohol or Drug Related Emergency Line (211) and information
offered on the Board’s Website, www.adamhscc.org Committee members asked that the title used on the upcoming
Finance & Operations Committee agenda read, “White Pages & yp.com Advertising and Search Engine Marketing” in
order to capture the span of the contract.
Motion to approve the YP Advertising Contract and Program for the time period July 1, 2019 to June 30, 2020
to the Finance & Operations Committee. MOTION: E. Kirkland / SECOND: K. Kern-Pilch / AYES: K. Kern-Pilch,
E. Kirkland, S. Rosenbaum, H. Snider / NAYS: None / Motion passed.
4. Sponsorships
Beth Zietlow-DeJesus, Director of External Affairs, highlighted the five Sponsorships recommended by Board staff to
the CR&A Committee and referenced the details provided in the individual agenda process sheets for:
▪

Cleveland Christian Home Run and Walk for Kids (May 4, 2019, Cleveland Zoo) - $250.00

▪

New Directions Night Fore Movies (May 5, 2019) - $500.00

▪

Survivors of Violence Conference and Concert (May 10-11, 2019) - $750.00

▪

Milestones National Autism Conference (June 11-12, 2019) - $1,700.00

▪

Ohio Prevention Conference (June 24-26, 2019, OSU College of Social Work) - $1,000.00

▪

Recovery Resources Run for Recovery (August 17, 2019) - $1,000.00

▪

Ohio Association of County Behavioral Health Authorities 2019 Recovery Conference (October 14 – 15, 2019) $1,500.00

Motion to approve the sponsorships (listed above) to the Finance & Operations Committee.
MOTION: E. Kirkland / SECOND: K. Kern-Pilch / AYES: K. Kern-Pilch, E. Kirkland, S. Rosenbaum, H. Snider
NAYS: None / Motion passed.
5. First Responder Appreciation Week: April 29 – May 5 “Bringing Help, Bringing Hope”
The Ohio Association of County Behavioral Health Authorities, the Ohio Department of Mental Health and Addiction
Services, the Office of the Attorney General and ADAMHS Boards across the state are partnering to have a week of
appreciation for all first responders dealing with the opioid crisis. During the appreciation week, communities throughout
Ohio will address the opiate epidemic by showing appreciation for frontline workers.
Our local activities involve delivering thank you packages to first responders across Cuyahoga County and creating
thank you messages on social media. Anyone interested in delivering care packages to first responders are encouraged
to contact Madison Scagnetti, External Affairs Officer, at scagnetti@adamhscc.org or at (216) 241-3400, Ext. 861.
6. Annual Meeting Update
The ADAMHS Board’s Annual Meeting is scheduled for Monday, May 13th, at the Cleveland Marriott East. To date,
460 people have registered to attend. The Art Show starts at 9:00 a.m.; doors open to the Ballroom at 9:30 a.m.
Special plans are in the works to celebrate the ADAMHS Board’s 10th Anniversary.
7. Annual Career Fair
This year the ADAMHS Board will host its 5th annual Behavioral Health & Human Services Career Fair on Friday, May
10th at the DoubleTree in Beachwood. To date, 190 people have registered and 41 agencies that are offering positions
will be represented.
2

 Community Relations & Advocacy Committee Minutes

May 1, 2019

8. Training Update
Carole Ballard, Director of Education & Training, reported that the 2019 Roads to Recovery Conference is scheduled
for Monday, October 21st, at the Cleveland Airport Marriot Hotel on West 150th Street. A contract has been secured
with our keynote presenter, Dr. Dakota King White. Dr. White is affiliated with a number of school districts across the
state of Ohio. Currently, she is the Assistant Professor in the College of Education at Cleveland State University and
was also nominated as one of the “Top 40 at 40 Years Old” by Crain’s Magazine. As she is an accomplished writer
and lecturer on education issues in the school particularly related to trauma, Dr. King will speak about trauma informed
approaches to strengthen our communities. Starting this summer, Dr. King will be offering the first course in the state
of Ohio on working with people in trauma.
Efforts are underway to make the Recovery Conference more holistic by presenting topics for youth, adults, and the
elderly and to address supported employment, peer support, etc. Ms. Ballard highlighted a sampling of the unique
workshops that are being considered for the Recovery Conference. She noted that the Advisory Training Committee
has met initially and will meet again soon to finalize the scoring for the final applications. Efforts are underway to
streamline the CEU (Continuing Education Units) process for attendees.
9. Social Media and Media Tracking Reports
▪ Tracking Reports - Ms. Zietlow-DeJesus provided committee members with an overview of the social media
statistics since the last CR&A Committee meeting. We have added 105 new followers with total of 3,315 fans now
on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. Total impressions for the time period (3/06/19 through 4/30/19) were seen
189,251 times.
▪ The Media/Press Clipping Report from 3/06/19 through 4/30/19 indicated that the ADAMHS Board had a total of 34
media mentions, 30 were positive, 4 neutral and 0 negative.
10. Adhoc Committee Discussion on Podiatric & Dental Health
Committee Input:
- Ms. Kirkland shared that Board members at the April General Meeting felt hesitant about moving forward on this
initiative with the thinking that the Board might be taking fiscal responsibility for something that is not part of the
ADAMHS Board’s mission.
- Based upon previous discussions, it was felt that Board members do wish to make sure that clients receive
information about the importance of attending to podiatric and dental health and where such services are delivered.
- It was suggested that this concept be presented as a process of engagement and that the ADAMHS Board should
be perceived as a navigator or resource to provide the information.
- Committee members appreciated the handouts developed to direct clients to available resources and suggested that
this information be shared on our website.
Mr. Snider, Adhoc Committee Chair, noted that through his Oath of Office he considers himself an advocate on behalf
of clients. He stated that he will continue to strongly advocate for inclusion of podiatric and dental services as
wraparound services for individuals living with substance use disorders and/or mental illness based upon the research
conducted by Dr. Mary Step. Given the discussion points made, he will support the present motion to recommend it
for further review by the Planning & Oversight Committee. Discussion continued on possible revised wording for the
title for agenda process sheet and Board resolution.
Motion to amend the agenda process sheet and resolution to recommend support of advocating for awareness
of podiatric and dental health needs of individuals living with substance abuse and/or mental health disorders
to the Planning & Oversight Committee. MOTION: K. Kern-Pilch / SECOND: S. Rosenbaum / AYES: K. Kern-Pilch,
E. Kirkland, S. Rosenbaum, H. Snider / NAYS: None / Motion passed.

3

 Community Relations & Advocacy Committee Minutes

May 1, 2019

11. Old/New Business
-

Mr. Snider recently visited a local behavioral health center and observed that a group of army enlistees were
visiting a member of the military who was receiving services there. The person being visited shared that his
family lived on the West coast and that the enlistees were his family here. Mr. Snider suggested that the
concept of visitation for those in the military might be something for Board staff to consider.

-

Ms. Zietlow-DeJesus provided an update on the Fentanyl Test Strip Campaign. She explained that both she
and Ms. Scagnetti participate on a campaign workgroup consisting of representatives from the County and
the Department of Justice. The workgroup found someone to do pro-bono ad work for the campaign. Board
staff found the ads produced to be unacceptable. A focus group reviewed the ads as well and found them to
be potentially harmful. Ms. Zietlow-DeJesus showed the ads described. Committee members agreed with the
focus group and Board staff. As a result, the ADAMHS Board wishes to withdraw from this partnership as the
Board does not want its name associated with these ads. For the record, Ms. Zietlow-DeJesus noted that the
County allocated funding to the ADAMHS Board to purchase the Fentanyl Test Strips for dissemination.
Mr. Snider recommended that the Board send a formal letter expressing our displeasure with the ads and our
disappointment that the workgroup intends to use them as presented. Mr. Osiecki confirmed that he will
prepare the letter and email for the respective parties as suggested.

There being no further business, the meeting adjourned at 5:15 p.m.
Submitted by:

Carol Krajewski, Executive Specialist

Approved by:

Harvey A. Snider, Esq., Community Relations & Advocacy Committee Chair

4

 