GATEWAY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION OF GREATER CLEVELAND
Minutes of a Meeting of the
Board of Trustees
Held on May 25, 2016
3:00 o'clock p.m.
Cleveland Indians Ballpark
Terrace Club Meeting Room
Cleveland, Ohio

There being a quorum present, Mr. Offtermatt called the meeting to order
at approximately 3:05 p.m.
Board members Timothy Offtermatt, Matt
Carroll, Tracey Nichols and William Reidy were present. Board member
Emmanuel Glover was absent and Mr. Reidy left after the Chairman’s report
due to another engagement.
Also present were Todd Greathouse, Brian
Kelly and Daniella Nunnally of Gateway, as well as Dennis Wilcox, General
Counsel. Present from the Cleveland Indians was Dennis Lehman. Present
from the media were Karen Farkas of Cleveland.com and Kevin Klepps from
Crain’s Cleveland Business. William Tarter was present from the public.
The first item of business was to approve the Minutes of the February 10,
2016 meeting.
Upon motion made by Mr. Carroll, and seconded by Ms.
Nichols, the Minutes of the February 10, 2016 meeting were unanimously
approved.
Public comment was next and Mr. Tarter asked several questions: (1) he
wanted to know (1) whether the County and the City have agreed on a split
of the Sin Tax; (2) what projects have been completed with the use of Sin
Tax; and (3) what is happening with the Arena expansion discussions and
is there anything ongoing between Gateway, the County and the Team. Mr.
Offtermatt answered the questions as follows: (1) there has been no
agreement between the County and the City on the split of the Sin Tax;
(2) the projects completed with Sin Tax revenues will be provided; and
(3) discussions on the Arena expansion are ongoing between the County and
the Team, but there is nothing to report.
The Chair then gave his report. He indicated that five year plans have
been requested from each team. This would still need to go to the Board
and be used as a planning tool. Discussions with the teams have included
meeting with the Indians, who are further along with their five year
plan, whereas the Cavs are not ready yet.
He reminded everyone that

 there will be approximately $13,000,000 collected each year from the Sin
Tax to be used for three facilities, which won’t be enough to cover all
Major Capital needs, and there will be a need to prioritize these needs.
Mr. Offtermatt then turned the meeting over to Mr. Greathouse for the
Executive Director’s report. Mr. Greathouse first reported on the common
area site indicating that repairs, cleaning and planting are ongoing.
Mr. Offtermatt asked if these items were covered by ongoing CAM costs in
the budget and he indicated they were. With respect to the RNC, Daniella
Nunnally is working on the Gateway Plaza, lights for the trees, working
with Secret Service and the general clean up and maintenance items. Ms.
Nichols asked about the cost for the above, and Mr. Greathouse indicated
it was covered under the CAM Budget or by third party payments and Mr.
Greathouse indicated Ms. Nunnally was also working on the RNC related
work in the Arena.
Next Mr. Greathouse gave his report on Arena Major Capital items,
including the Safety and Security systems which are almost 95% complete.
These systems were budgeted at about $3,090,000 and will come in at a
cost of slightly less than $3,000,000.
He next discussed the Arena roof system and noted the last Board
resolution authorized a budget of $7,200,000. The early bidding came
back in excess of that because of scheduling of the project around the
RNC and because of the roof sign project.
Because of this, it was
decided to start over and perform the roof work after the RNC and a new
bid process would be starting soon. He also reported that the Cavs are
going to pay for all additional costs related to the presence of the roof
Mr.
sign being installed.
He is looking for bids around July 27th.
Offtermatt asked if this will be done in phases and Mr. Greathouse stated
that it would, over 2016-2017. Ms. Nichols then advised Mr. Greathouse
that Jobs Ohio and the County will match people with the skills necessary
if there is a shortage of labor on these projects.
Mr. Greathouse continued with the Quicken Loans Arena report stating work
is currently on hold with the HVAC because of the need to pay Osborne
$100,000 to do engineering.
He then talked about the Arena LED roof sign, which the City approved and
which Daktronics is installing. He emphasized the Cavs are paying in full
for the cost of this project and that it is expected to be complete in
June. It is 80% complete now and currently you can see “Q” or “Quicken
Loans” on the sign.
He then reported on Progressive Field and noted that the Daktronics video
display project was a total package of about $15,000,000 which included
video ribbon boards, out of town scoreboard and other items other than
the main scoreboard, and noted that the total project came under budget
by approximately $1,100,00.

2

 Mr. Greathouse then reviewed the sound system project which had a budget
of approximately $4,700,000 and came under budget by roughly $1,000,000
at approximately $3,700,000.
He then discussed the TH Martin contract for mechanical/HVAC. This is the
$5,000,000 first phase for HVAC work. They had some issues with TH
Martin’s worth, including some of the conduit joints leaking and they
have worked with the manufacturer and the installer to try to work on
these issues.
He reported that they are now looking to replace the
chiller and believe that will be within budget.
He then discussed the safety and security system budgeted at $2,800,000
and felt that this was on track with the budget.
Mr. Greathouse next talked about food service improvements which was a
$1,426,000 project. He felt that they were on budget and there were no
problems with that item.
Finally, he noted that Suite renovations were ongoing and were within
budget.
He then discussed unfunded projects which had been directed to the County
with a request for approval from the Board, including the field lights.
He was looking to bid those in mid-summer and is looking to replace the
field lights at an estimated $2,100,000 and the outside escalators at a
cost of approximately $1,700,000. He also noted that after the season is
over, high steel and concrete will be addressed.
Next, Daniella Nunnally reviewed the inclusion report.
Ms. Nunnally
referred to spreadsheets which were prepared for the Board and contained
in the Board materials. She started with the Quicken Loans Arena,
specifically the Security Center. For these major capital projects the
following goals were established: of MBE 15%, FBE 7% and CSB 8%. The
Security Center to date is 11% for MBE, with no FBE or CSB involvement.
Then, she reviewed the Ballpark Phase 2 Project performed by Gilbane and
the Indians. To date, the performance is 7% MBE, 9% FBE and 31% CSB.
She then reviewed the Ballpark Scoreboard with a percentage to date of 9%
MBE, 44% FBE and 60% CSB. She also noted that some of the items in this
matter where specialty and thus not included in those figures.
She next reviewed the sound system for the Ballpark which had the same
goals as the previous projects. She also noted that there were a number
of specialty items and that to date the only performance was 74% CSB.
Mr. Carroll asked about the difference between bid goals versus actual
performance. Mr. Greathouse noted that anticipated MBE contractor for
the electrical did not have enough workers to work on this job. He noted
that contractors normally line up their inclusion components ahead of
time and sometimes these companies are too busy to subsequently perform
the work. Mr. Offtermatt wondered if the County or the City might be
3

 able to help in this regard.
Mr. Greathouse noted that they have
quarterly meetings to review these and they will report that we need to
find more minority electrical companies. Mr. Offtermatt also suggested
that in addition to attending, they send these reports to the City and
County as well.
The next report was on the Ballpark cooling towers and they are awaiting
payment and will have higher numbers. To date it is 31% FBE and 1% CSB
only.
Mr. Offtermatt again challenged the staff to find workers and
minorities even in light of all of the work that is going on at this
point.
Mr. Kelly then gave the financial report.
He first reviewed the
operating account which had a beginning balance as of April 1st of
$94,326, total receipts of $279,978, total disbursements of $282,253,
with a balance at month end of $92,052. He then reviewed the Ballpark
operating account with an opening balance of $107,788, $300,000 in
receipts and $260,652 in disbursements, for an ending balance of
$147,136.
He next reviewed the 3 month forecast from May 1 through July 31. With a
beginning balance of a little over $92,000 and anticipated revenues of
$1,517,583, there are estimated funds available of $1,609,635 and
estimated disbursements of $1,521,206 for an estimated balance on July
31st of $88,429. He observed that a large portion of these payments are
for property taxes with the Indians at $574,968.49 and the Cavs at
$257,886.96 which also includes the business improvement district
assessment.
Mr. Kelly then gave a report on Major Capital items through May 16 and
noted the total approved for Progressive Field was $32,454,547 with
$18,105,724 being spent. Quicken Loans capital repair report as of May
16 showed $20,093,917 in approved projects with $18,772,058 having been
paid. Out of that he noted that $941,505 was self-funded and another
$113,757 was an advance from the Cavs for retractable seating.
Mr.
Offtermatt then asked a question about the procedures for reimbursement
through the Sin Tax and it was confirmed that the disbursement request is
referred to the County and the County then directs the Trustee to make
payment, the Trustee then makes payment to Gateway and then Gateway makes
payments to the contractor. It is also noted the County disbursement
request includes all invoices and back-up. Mr. Offtermatt then asked
about the audit and noted the Major Capital should increase the capital
items on the audit.
Mr. Kelly then gave a summary based on the hand-out on the Progressive
Field alteration account for Phase 1 and 2 which were being funded by the
Indians. Total disbursements to date are approximately $34,000,000.
Mr. Kelly then noted that as of June 2nd the audit would begin and had
been delayed because of the complexity and working with the County on the
4

 Major Capital items that are being reimbursed.
of the audit by the end of July.

He estimated completion

The next meeting is scheduled for August 10.
There being no further business before the Board, on a motion by Mr.
Carroll, seconded by Ms. Nichols, the meeting was adjourned at 4:05 p.m.
APPROVED BY:
SECRETARY-TREASURER
_________________________

5

 