DRAFT
GATEWAY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION OF GREATER CLEVELAND
Minutes of a Meeting of the
Board of Trustees
Held on September 16, 2014
4:00 o'clock p.m.
Offices of
Climaco, Wilcox, Peca, Tarantino & Garofoli Co., L.P.A.
Cleveland, Ohio
There being a quorum present, Mr. Offtermatt called the meeting to
order at approximately 4:05 p.m. The following Board members were
present: Tim Offtermatt, Matt Carroll, William Reidy and Emmanuel
Glover. Board Member Tracey Nichols, was absent. Also present were
Todd Greathouse, Brian Kelly, Daniella Nunnally of Gateway and Dennis
Wilcox, General Counsel and attorney David Cuppage from his office.
In addition, representatives from the Cleveland Indians – Jim Folk,
Joseph Znidarsic and Andrew Miller - were present. Representatives of
the Cleveland Cavaliers – Antony Bonavita, Len Komorowski and Jason
Hillman - were present.
Also, present from the County was Michael
King. Present from the press was Mark Naymak and from the general
public William Tarter, Jr. and Mary Sweeney.
The first order of business was to consider approval of the Minutes
of the August 20, 2014 meeting. Upon motion by Mr. Glover, seconded
by Mr. Carroll, the Minutes of that meeting were unanimously
approved.
Mr. Offtermatt then asked for any public comment. There was no public
comment.
Mr. Offtermatt then summarized the Major Capital Resolution and the
Alteration Resolution now before the Board. He asked Mr. Wilcox to
summarize the materials that the Board was considering. Mr. Wilcox
summarized Resolution 2014-4 concerning Major Capital Repairs at the
Arena and an agreement with the Cavaliers regarding Major Capital
Repairs, which outlines each party’s responsibility, including
working together to present these repairs to the County for
reimbursement from the Excise Tax and pursuing objectives outlined in
the Community Benefits MOU supported by the Board. The Agreement also
provides that the Cavaliers would be advancing all costs and hold
Gateway harmless from any claims with respect to the repair project.
Three Major Capital contracts also were briefly summarized for the
Board.
In response to a question from Mr. Offtermatt, Antony
Bonavita of the Cavaliers then summarized the bidding process and
noted that ANC, the scoreboard contractor, is the current scoreboard

 provider. He also outlined the total amount of the contracts before
the Board, being approximately $15 million with approximately $9.3
million for scoreboard related matters, $4.3 million for the control
room and $1.5 million for the seating bowl sound system.
Upon further explanation and discussion by the Board, Mr. Reidy then
moved for approval of the following resolution which was seconded by
Mr. Carroll and unanimously approved by the Board.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-4
AUTHORIZING AND APPROVING AGREEMENT
WITH RESPECT TO MAJOR CAPITAL REPAIRS
BETWEEN GATEWAY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION OF GREATER CLEVELAND AND
CAVALIERS OPERATING COMPANY, LLC AND
MAJOR CAPITAL CONTRACTS PURSUANT THERETO
WHEREAS, Gateway Economic Development Corporation of Greater
Cleveland (“Gateway”) has agreed to provide for Major Capital Repairs
as defined in the Lease and Operating Agreement, as amended (the
“Lease”) between Gateway and Cavaliers Operating Company, LLC (the
“Cavaliers”), respecting Quicken Loans Arena (the “Arena”); and
WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees of Gateway (the “Board”) has
previously notified the City of Cleveland, Ohio (“City”) and Cuyahoga
County (“County”) that Gateway does not have sufficient funds to pay
Major Capital Repairs as defined in the Lease and requested the
respective appointing authorities of Gateway, the City and the
County, to consider such funding of Major Capital Repairs; and
WHEREAS, on May 9, 2012 the Board adopted Resolution No. 2012-1
setting forth its policies and procedures with respect to Major
Capital Repairs (“Policy”); and
WHEREAS, the Cavaliers have submitted a request for approval of
Major Capital Repairs for the Arena (“Major Capital Repairs”) under
the Lease, which was recommended for approval on August 20, 2014 by
the Board’s adoption of Resolution No. 2014-3; and
WHEREAS, the Board forwarded Resolution No. 2014-3 to the County
and City requesting funding for such Major Capital Repairs; and
WHEREAS, pending review and response from the County and City on
the request to fund the Major Capital Repairs, Gateway and the
Cavaliers have been working together to accomplish certain of the
Major Capital Repairs prior to the upcoming NBA Basketball Season;
and
WHEREAS, Gateway and the Cavaliers have negotiated an agreement
with respect to the implementation of certain of Major Capital
Repairs (the “Agreement”) and three (3) contracts among Gateway, the
2

 Cavaliers, and: (1) ANC Sports Enterprises LLC for the Scoreboard;
(2) Parsons Technologies for the Sound System; and (3) Comprehensive
Technical Group LLC for the control room replacement (collectively
the “Major Capital Contracts”); and
WHEREAS, the Board desires to authorize and approve the
Agreement and Major Capital Contracts and actions to be taken
thereunder.
NOW, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Trustees of Gateway, on
behalf of Gateway, hereby authorizes and approves the Agreement and
Major Capital Contracts, substantially in the form on file with the
Board.
FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Chair or Secretary or any other
officer of Gateway are authorized to enter into the Agreement and
Major Capital Contracts, substantially in the form on file and with
such changes as are not materially adverse to Gateway and which are
consistent with this Resolution, as such officer or officers
executing the same in their judgment deem necessary or appropriate in
connection therewith, which execution shall constitute conclusive
evidence as of the approval and authorization thereof by Gateway.
FURTHER BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that the Chair or Secretary or
any officer of Gateway are each authorized to carry out the
transactions set forth in the Agreement and Major Capital Contracts,
provided such actions are consistent with this Resolution and not
materially adverse to Gateway.
_________________
Next, the Board considered alterations to the Ballpark and
Resolution 2014-5. Mr. Wilcox again summarized several documents
including the First Amendment to Lease with the Indians which
clarifies that the alterations will be owned by Gateway. He further
explained that the Ballpark Parcel did not need to be modified for
mortgage purposes, but the description of the Ballpark itself would
be redrawn once the project was further along. He also explained
there was a separate agreement with the Indians which contained all
of the requirements for Ballpark alterations from the Lease,
including that the alterations would be at the Lessee’s sole cost and
expense, would not materially increase the cost of Major Capital
Repairs, would comply with all applicable laws and would require the
Indians to indemnify Gateway from any claims.
Mr. Greathouse also explained that the 6,200 pavers around Gate
C would be moved and that the Feller statue would be outside the new
Ballpark Entrance Gates. Mr. Miller explained that photos of all of
the pavers would be taken and pavers moved at a cost of approximately
$37,000. Also, it was discussed that a survey would need to be done
to set the new Ballpark site description once the project was
completed.
3

 After further discussion by the Board, upon motion made by Mr.
Glover, seconded by Mr. Carroll, the following Resolution was
unanimously approved by the Board.
RESOLUTION NO. 2014-5
AUTHORIZING AND APPROVING AGREEMENT
WITH RESPECT TO ALTERATIONS, DESIGN-BUILD AGREEMENT GUARANTEED
MAXIMUM PRICE AND AMENDMENT TO LEASE
EACH BETWEEN GATEWAY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION OF GREATER CLEVELAND AND
CLEVELAND INDIANS BASEBALL COMPANY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
WHEREAS, Gateway Economic Development Corporation of Greater
Cleveland (“Gateway”) has entered into a Lease Agreement dated as of
September 15, 2008 (the “Lease”) with the Cleveland Indians Baseball
Company Limited Partnership (the “Indians”), respecting the Major
League Baseball Park known as Progressive Field (the “Ballpark”); and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Lease, the Indians have submitted a
request for approval of alterations to the Ballpark (the “2014
Alterations”) as presented to the Board at its August 13, 2014 Board
Meeting; and as described in an Agreement between Gateway and the
Indians, a form of which is on file with Gateway (the “Agreement”).
WHEREAS, Gateway and the Indians, in connection with the 2014
Alterations have also negotiated a Lease Amendment respecting the
same, a form of which is on file with Gateway (the “Lease
Amendment”); and
WHEREAS, the Indians have presented a Design-Build Agreement
Guaranteed Maximum Price (the “Design-Build Contract”) among Gateway,
the Indians and Gilbane Building Company (“Gilbane”) with respect to
the 2014 Alterations, a form of which is on file with Gateway.
WHEREAS, the Board desires to authorize and approve the
Agreement and Lease Amendment and the Design-Build Contract and
actions to be taken thereunder.
NOW, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Trustees of Gateway, on
behalf of Gateway, hereby authorizes and approves the Agreement,
Lease Amendment and Design-Build Contract, substantially in the forms
on file with the Board.
FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Chair or Secretary or any other
officer of Gateway are authorized to enter into the Agreement, Lease
Amendment and Design-Build Contract, substantially in the forms on
file and with such changes as are not materially adverse to Gateway
and which are consistent with this Resolution, as such officer or
officers executing the same in their, his or her judgment deem
necessary or appropriate in connection therewith, which execution
4

 shall constitute conclusive evidence
authorization thereof by Gateway.

as

of

the

approval

and

FURTHER BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that the Chair or Secretary or
any officer of Gateway are each authorized to carry out the
transactions set forth in the Agreement and Lease Amendment and
Design-Build Contract, provided such actions are consistent with this
Resolution and not materially adverse to Gateway.
_________________
Next, the Board discussed next’s year’s meeting dates.
In
particular, Mr. Offtermatt suggested adding two board meetings to the
current schedule so that there would be two meetings in both May and
August to deal with Major Capital items from the respective teams in
anticipation of their upcoming off-seasons. He suggested the Board
continue to have meetings in January and November, but two meetings
in May and two meetings in August, for a total of six. Mr. Reidy
indicated he felt that was a good concept and Board members will be
contacted with potential dates. Mr. Offtermatt then indicated that
he would like Gateway to put in writing to the County and the City a
request to receive a part of the annual Excise Tax of the County to
be used to cover some of the Gateway staff and consultant time for
Major Capital Repairs so it was not being paid out of rental payments
from the teams. He also felt this could be amortized as a bond cost.
Thus, this would avoid the appearance of the teams having to pay for
these items.
This would be taken up when the annual budget is
considered.
Mr. Offtermatt then reported that the last bond payment on Gateway
Bonds was made and that he thanked the County to be a guarantor and
congratulated the Indians on making the last Stadium Revenue Bond
payment.
Mr. Greathouse reported on the Ballpark chiller plant and the
proposed fixes to that plant and estimated that this would be a
potential Major Capital item in the near future.
Mr. Offtermatt
suggested that he would need to follow up with Mr. Faller to monitor
this item. The problem is a drive shaft that needs to be replaced.
Also, there are four cells for the chiller with only three running
now. A new chiller would be approximately $2.2 million. They are
protecting the chiller for now by doing repairs. In 2011 Gateway and
the Indians consultant projected the chillers lasting until 2018.
Since that time the Indians have put approximately $220,000 into
repairs, but Mr. Greathouse let the Board know that he did not
believe that the chillers would last until 2018 and would become a
Major Capital Repair before that time.
Mr. Greathouse then reported on his monthly review of the buildings.
He noted that the concrete and elevator/escalator repairs were being
made by the Indians.

5

 Mr. Kelly next gave the financial report. The operating account had
a cash balance August 1st of $160,707 with total August receipts of
$193,478 and total disbursements of $188,881 for cash on hand August
31st at $165,305.
The Ballpark Capital Account had a beginning
balance of $78,513, with $203,011 in receipts and $160,424 in
disbursements for a cash balance of $121,100 at the end of August.
Three months projections showed $165,305 as an opening balance,
$580,530 as anticipated revenues, and total funds of $673,935 being
available. Forecasted disbursements are $559,050 for a projected
operating account balance of $114,885 at the end of November.
Mr. Tarter as a member of the public then asked a question about
whether the Resolutions were posted on Gateway’s website. It was
agreed that could be accomplished.
There being no further business before the Board, upon motion made by
Mr. Carroll and seconded by Mr. Reidy, and unanimously approved by
the Board, the meeting was adjourned at 4:55 p.m.
APPROVED BY:
SECRETARY-TREASURER
_________________________

6

 