November 27, 2019
Local School Council Members at
Hope High School
5515 S Lowe Ave Chicago, IL 60621
Re: Proposed Closure of Hope High School
Dear Hope High School Local School Council,
Chicago Public Schools (CPS) is committed to providing every child from every community with a
high-quality education that prepares them for success in college, career and civic life. CPS students
continue to make record-breaking academic progress in every part of the city. Our goal is that all CPS
schools can build on this progress by offering high quality, rigorous instruction from talented educators
that help put Chicago students on a path to lasting success.
At the end of last school year (SY18-19), Hope High School had 20 students enrolled. As of November 1,
2019, Hope had zero students enrolled. All students that have transferred out of the school after June
30, 2018 received support to ensure a successful transition to their new school. Additionally, each high
school receiving transfer students received $6,100 per student in supplemental funding to provide
academic, social and emotional, and other supports to these students during SY18-19 and SY19-20. CPS
continues to support former Hope High School students with this transition and as of November 1, 2019,
all Hope High School students have successfully transitioned to other schools. This funding and support
will also continue in SY20-21.
As such, CPS is proposing to close Hope High School effective July 1, 2020, in order to efficiently manage
District resources. This proposal meets the criteria in the Chief Executive Officer’s Guidelines for School
Actions (Guidelines) because as of November 1, 2019, there were no students enrolled at Hope. There
continue to be no students enrolled at Hope. Please refer to the enclosed Draft Transition Plan for
additional information about the proposed closure.
As a next step, CPS will hold two community meetings and one public hearing to receive public comment
and feedback on this proposal. More information can be found in the Public Comment Section of this
letter. Following the meetings and hearing, the Board of Education may vote on this proposal as early as
February 2020.

 Public Comment on this Proposal
CPS values community input and ​I invite you to share your feedback on the proposed closure of Hope
during the two community meetings and one public hearing outlined below:
Community Meeting

Community Meeting

Public Hearing

Tuesday, January 14, 2020
5:30-7:00 PM
Kershaw Elementary
6450 S Lowe Ave

Thursday, January 23, 2020
5:30-7:00 PM
Kershaw Elementary
6450 S Lowe Ave

Wednesday, January 29, 2020
5:30 - 6:30 PM
CPS Central Office
42 West Madison Street

If you wish to comment at the community meetings or hearing, please adhere to the following: you must
register to speak on the day of, at the designated location, beginning one hour before the designated
start time and ending 30 minutes after the start of the meeting or hearing. You will have two minutes to
speak unless the hearing officer or meeting organizer provides an extension. The hearing will conclude
at the stated end time or following the comments of the last person who has signed up to speak,
whichever occurs first.
Thank you in advance for your feedback as we work to provide all Chicago Public School students with
the high-quality education they deserve. After the community meetings and public hearing, I will review
a written report from the hearing officer and at that time, I may recommend that the Board consider
and approve the closure of Hope High School.
Further Questions and Concerns:
Information on this proposal can be found at CPS.edu/Transitions. Questions or concerns regarding this
proposal and the Draft Transition Plan can be shared via email at transitions@cps.edu or by phone at
(773) 553-1500.
Sincerely,

Janice K. Jackson, EdD
Chief Executive Officer
Chicago Public Schools

 