DATE:

TIME:
PLACE:
COMMITTEE
TRUSTEES:

STAFF:

(ABSENT):

THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
QUALITY 8: SAFETY COMMITTEE
BOARD OF TRUSTEES

REGULAR MEETING MINUTES

May 9, 2018

12:00 p.m.

MetroHeaIth Medical Center

K107, Business Services Building

Mr. Moss, Dr. Silvers

Dr. Boutros, Dr. Bouianger, Ms. Abramov, Mr. Chadwick, Ms. Connelly, Mr. Gutridge,
Dr. Golob, Mr. Kaufmann, Ms. Kiedio, Ms. Kline, Mr. Kucerra, Ms. McBride, Dr. Mercer,

Ms. Platten, Mr. Stern, Dr. Watts, Dr. Wera, Dr. Werner, Dr. Wilber, Ms. Yurkovich

Dr. Chehade, Dr. Kasprzak, Mr. McDonald

Mr. Moss called the reguiar meeting of the Quaiity Safety Committee to order at 12:06 pm.

I. Approval of Minutes February 14, 2018

The minutes Ofthe February 14, 2018 Quality 8: Safety Committee Meeting were approved
as presented.

ll. DISCUSSION ITEMS

A.

Introduction of New Members - Brook Watts, MD.

Dr. Watts announced that Dr. Joseph Golob, Medical Director of Patient Safety, Dr. Brian
Mercer, Council of Chairs Representative, Larry Chadwick, Vice President Hospital
Operations, Marina Abramov, RN, Nursing Representative, Dr. Timothy Kasprzak and/or
Dr. Sandra Werner, Medical Staff President and Michael Gutridge, Pharmacy
Representative are new committee members for the Quality 8: Safety Committee.

B. Orthopedics Quality Improvement? Dr. Glenn Wera
Dr. Wera stated the purpose of this discussion is to define readmission reduction
measures in Orthopaedic Total Joint Replacement Surgery from September 2016 to the
present. There are over 700,000 total knee replacements and 230,000 total hip
replacements per year in the United States. Complications such as infection and failures
vary by institution. Medicare expenditure varies from $16,500 to $33,000.
MetroHealth?s goal is 1,000 cases per year. Many factors have been linked to
readmission after total joint arthroplasty such as race, male, discharge to inpatient
rehabilitation, increase duration of hospital stay, unilateral replacement, decreased age,
decreased distance between home and the hospital, and total knee replacement.
Obesity has been linked to 30-day complications after total joint arthroplasty. Areas
that can help reduce readmissions would be to educate and enforce an ultra?clean
mentality, x-ray shield so staff do not have to leave, minimize traffic, and clean each
room for each joint, and dedicate total joint teams. Next steps will include further
improvements in Anesthetic Methods (spinal regional), length of stay (the other quality
measure), profitability of cases and resist regression to the mean.

C. 2018 Goals Update Matthew Kaufmann
Mr. Kaufmann presented the reports for ACO Quality Metrics, Hospital Performance for
Decreased ED Time After the Decision to Admit, IP Discharge Time of Day, Care
Pathways Developed and Implemented, PSI 90 Composite, HAI Reduction, SSI
Reduction, 30-Day Readmissions, Sharp Injuries, Order Set Utilization, 
Implementation, and Care Equitability.

D. Organization Ql Education (IHI) Matthew Kaufmann
Mr. Kaufmann stated that the Educational Program is targeted at physicians and
nurses. The course outline consists of basics of improvement science, process maps and
PDSA, measurement and understanding variability, run and control charts and leading PI
and scaling up. So far, they have received positive feedback, positive evaluations and
requests for more sessions.

E. Joint Commission Preparation - Ms. Kelly Connolly
Ms. Connelly stated that presently we are in the window for two Joint Commission
surveys. An extension survey for both Parma and Cleveland Heights inpatient units can
occur between now and the end ofJune. Our organizational triennial survey visit can
occur between now and the end of November. A combined survey is also a possibility.
The Quality Institute has been preparing staff for the surveys by performing 
organizational tracers since November. The tracers include visits to the various units,
ambulatory sites, and remote hospitals ensuring compliance related to environment of
care, infection control, safety and quality. The findings are shared with leadership and
presented at Accreditation and Compliance Oversight Committee meetings.
Arrival plans have been completed in preparation for both surveys. The escort team has
been established for the assigned surveyors for the week of the triennial visit and have
met to discuss roles and responsibilities. Throughout April they will meet with ten

multidisciplinary teams that will be required to meet with the surveyors during the
triennial week?long visit to discuss identified topics. in the event that there will be two
surveys, we will continue to perform tracers, work to resolve any outstanding concerns
and continue to educate and coach staff on survey preparedness.

Ill. ITEMS

 

None

N. CONSENT ITEMS

None

There being no further business to come before the Committee, the meeting was adjourned at 1:37 pm.

Respectfully,

Mr. John Moss, Chairman
Board of Trustees

