RTII

The Greater Cleveland
Regional Transit Authority
Main Office

i340 West Street

CICVciand. Ohio 441 l3~133i
Phonc Bio 356-3100 MEETING NOTICE

Fox 216350-5300
Notice is hereby given that the following meeting of the Board of Trustees of the

Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority will take place on December 3 2019 in
the Board Room of the Authority. 1240 West Sixth Street. Cleveland, OH 44113 for
consideration of the listed items and such other items that may properly come before
the Board and be acted upon.

 

India 1.. Birdsong
General Manager. 9:00 AM. External and Stakeholder Relations 8. Advocacy Committee

Chicr?mu?iw 0mm - Fare Policy Study Presentation by Rick Halvorsen of LTK
Engineering on the Fare Policy Study.

OrganizationalI Services Performance Monitoring Committee

in RFP Procurement:
Electricity Supp Presentation on negotiated procurement
to provide the Authority's electricity supply (non-utility) for a
period of three years.

I ESMS Update - Status of the 14001 2015 program and
review of the "Environmental Policy."

- Quarterlv Management Report Review of 3rd quarter 2019
results.

Operational Planning Infrastructure Committee
I RFP Procurement:

Engineering Services for the Trunk Line Signal Conceptual

Desig - Presentation on a negotiated competitive
procurement to provide design services for the Trunk Line
Signal SystemEngineering Services.

FY 2020 Appropriation - Follow-up presentation on the proposed
2020 Operating Budget.

2?El Public Hearing
I FY 2020 Appropriation

Audit, Safety Compliance And Real Estate Committee
In Property Insurance Renewal Program - Presentation on the

Property insurance Renewal Program.

- Internal Audit Quarterly Report Review of quarter 2019
audit work.

 

india L. Birdsong
General Manager, Chief Executive Of?cer

 LB:tab
Attachment

AGENDA
RTA EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDER RELATIONS 8t ADVOCACY 

Tuesday, December 3. 2019

Committee Members: Ms. Valarie J, McCall - Chair
Rev. Charles P. Lucas - Vice Chair
Mr. Justin M. Bibb
Mayor Michael P. Byrne
Mayor Georgine Welo

I. 

ll. Fare Policy Study - Presentation by Rick Halvorsen of LTK Engineering
on the Fare Policy Study.

Adjourn

AGENDA
RTA ORGANIZATIONAL, SERVICES PERFORMANCE MONITORING COMMITTEE

Tuesday, December 3, 2019

Committee Members: Rev. Charles P. Lucas, Chair
Mr. Justin M. Bibb
Mr. Leo Serrano
Mayor Michael P. Byrne

I. Roll Call
II. RFP Procurement
. Electricity Supp y: - Presentation on negotiated procurement to provide
the Authority's electricity supply (non-utility) for a period of three years.

Ill. ESMS Update Status ofthe ISO 14001 2015 program and review of the
"Environmental Policy."

IV. Quarterly Management Report - Review of 3"d quarter 2019 results.
V. Adjourn

AGENDA
RTA OPERATIONAL PLANNING a INFRASTRUCTURE COMMITTEE

Tuesday. December 3, 2019

Committee Members: Mayor Georgina Welo. Chair
Rev. Charles P. Lucas, Vice Chair
Mayor Michael P. Byrne
Mr- Terence P- Joyce
Ms. Karen Gabriel Moss
Mr. Leo Serrano

I. Roll Call
ll. RFP Procurement
. Engineering Services for the Trunk Line Sional Conceptual
Design - Presentation on a negotiated competitive
procurement to provide design services for the Trunk Line
Signal System Engineering Services.

Ill. FY 2020 Appropriation

- ollcw-up presentation on the proposed 2020 Operating
Budget.

IV. Adjourn

Greater Cleveland 1240 West 6th Street
Regional Transit Authority Cleveland, Ohio 441134302
Phone: 216-566-5100

ridertacom

November 15, 2019

Notice is herebyr given that a public hearing on the FY 2020 Operating and Capital
Budgets of the Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority will be held at 9:00 AM.
Eastern Daylight Time on Tuesday. December 3, 2019. The public hearing will be held in
the Board Room of the Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority, 1240 West Sixth
Street, Cleveland, OH 44113.

A copy of the proposed budget is on file in the Office of Management and Budget of the

Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority, Floor. 1240 West Sixth Street,
Cleveland. Ohio, and is available for public inspection.

ewe agape

L. Birdsong
General Manager. Chief Executive Of?cer

AGENDA
RTA AUDIT, SAFETY COMPLIANCE AND REAL ESTATE COMMITTEE

Tuesday, December 3. 2019

Committee Members: Ms. Karen Gabriel Moss - Chair
Rev. Charles P. Lucas - Vice Chair
Mr. Terence P. Joyce
Ms. Valarie J. McCall
Mayor Georgina Welo

Rail Call

Propertv Insurance Renewal Prcoram Presentation on the Property
Insurance Renewal Program.

Internal Audit QuartethRemort Review of third quarter 2019 audit work.

Adjourn

Greater Cleveland lnteroffice Memo
Regional Transit Authority

To: Mayor Dennis M. Clough, President
and Members, Board of Trustees
From: India L. Birdsong
General Manager. Chief Executive Officer
Date: November 27. 2019
Subject: Property Insurance Program Update

At the December 3, 2019 Audit, Safety Compliance and Real Estate Committee. Director of Risk
Management, Judy Lincoln, will provide an update regarding the Property Insurance Program.

GCRTA carries an all-risk property insurance policy which protects the physical assets of
GCRTA from perils such as fire. windstorm. explosion. and similar perils. The current policy is
written with FM Global and contains a blanket coverage limit of $500 million per occurrence and
a deductible of $250,000 per occurrence. both with various sub-limits and exceptions for
specialty coverages. This policy expires on January 1. 2020.

Risk Management Department has handled this insurance placement directly with FM
Global for several years (since 2011), saving the cost of a commercial insurance broker. This
year we have observed that the property insurance market is hardening and rates have been
increasing throughout 2019 and at a more rapid rate as the year progresses. We were also
informed by FM Global that they expect to have to impose a significant rate increase on our
account as well as all others. They also informed us that they will not be issuing a premium
credit to their long term clients as they have in most past years. This has been a significant
contributor to their competitive pricing in the past.

Accordingly, the Risk Management Department in cooperation with Procurement conducted a
small purchase procurement to retain a broker to assist with a competitive marketing effort for
the property insurance policy this year. We are in the process of conducting this marketing
effort. An undenrvriting submission was prepared summarizing the GCRTA account, total
insured values and comprehensive descriptions of properties including loss control engineering
inspections and data.

We expect to receive final proposals from the competing markets including FM Global by
December 2. 2019 and with our broker. we will evaluate them forthe best value and make a
recommendation to the full board prior to the Board meeting on December 17. 2019. We are
seeking the best terms and conditions and pricing available in the marketplace but in this case
in particular, the value of the engineering services must be weighed and taken into account.

Please call me if you have any questions or require additional information prior to Tuesday's
meeting.



