THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE CONINIITTEE
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES

DATE: Wednesday, March 21, 2018
TINIE: 2:00 to 4:00 pm.
PLACE: MetroHealth Medical Center

K107, Business Services Building

COMMITTEE Mr. McDonald, Mr. Monnolly, Mr. Schneider and Dr. Silvers

TRUSTEES:

ADDITIONAL Ms. Dee

TRUSTEES:

STAFF: K. Blessinger, A. Boutros, MD, D. Clark, G. Himes, M. Phillips, C. Richmond,
C. Forino Wahl .

GUESTS: K. Annul, R. Barre, L. Kalic, J. Mylen (KPMG), J. Croy (RSM)

Mr. Schneider called the meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee to order at 2:09 pm. Please
note that minutes are written to conform to the printed agenda and are not necessarily in the order of
discussion.

I.

II.

The minutes of the regular Audit and Compliance Committee meeting held on December 19, 2017
were approved as presented.

INFORMATION ITEMS

Mr. Schneider introduced Lori Kalic, Lead Audit Partner, who introduced the audit
engagement team. Ms. Kalic and Katy Armul, Audit Manager, presented the results of the 2017
Financial audit. Ms. Kalic provided an overview of the scope of audit services performed, noting
they were conducted in accordance with Auditing Standards Generally Accepted in the United
States of America, Government Audit Standards, and the Uniform Guidance. Ms. Kalic mentioned
the Ohio Compliance Supplement and two major programs were audited in accordance with the
Uniform Guidance: HIV Emergency Relief Project Grants and Maternal, Infant and Early
Childhood Home Visiting Grant Program. RSM audits The MetroHealth System, The MetroI-Iealth
Foundation, and the Select Assurance Captive LLC.

Ms. Kalic and Ms. Armul summarized the auditor?s professional reSponsibilities and highlighted
the new accounting pronouncements/standards adopted by the System in 2017. Also discussed with
the Committee was the audit focused on evaluating the reasonableness of signi?cant accounting
estimates made by management and highlighted several of those estimates. Ms. Kalic led
discussions around internal controls over ?nancial reporting and compliance - uniform guidance,
and noted no de?ciencies were identi?ed. Ms. Kalic continued discussion and remarked based on
our size and complexity, having no audit adjustments was a signi?cant accomplishment.

Craig Richmond, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Of?cer introduced Katherine
Blessinger, Assistant Controller, to the Committee. Ms. Blessinger is responsible for the System?s
Accounting department and leads the accounting and ?nancial reporting functions. In addition, Ms.

Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting Minutes
March 21, 2018
Page 2 of 3

Blessinger plays an integral role with managing the external audit along with Geoff Himes, Vice
President of Finance.

A motion was made, seconded and passed to approve the 2017 Audit as presented by RSM.

At this point in the meeting all management left the meeting and the Audit Committee trustees and
RSM audit engagement team met for discussion

Mr. Richmond continued the discussion by introducing John Croy, RSM, Senior Director and
National Leader of Construction Advisory Services, who provided an update on the construction
cost review services currently being performed by RSM.

Mr. Croy proceeded with introducing the RSM engagement team focused on the construction cost
review services. Mr. Croy focused first on the close?out stage of the Critical Care Pavilion project.
The ?nal payment application for the project is expected to be received this month, and the ?nal
review should be completed by April. Mr. Croy then discussed the review services on the broader
transformation project which is broken into four sections: preconstruction, monitoring,
interim reviews and close-out review. An interim review is being scheduled on the parking garage
for May 2018.

Cheryl Forino Wahl, Senior Vice President, Chief Ethics and Compliance Of?cer, provided an
update of the first quarter compliance program activities. Ms. Wahl stated the department follows
an annual work plan that covers seven risk domains which includes speci?c items. There were
several major accomplishments in each area of the work plan. Ms. Wahl mentioned that
compliance continues to make enhancements to the program and in de?ning the compliance
function, scope and implementing technology. In addition, Compliance is implementing an
externally-staffed compliance hotline which will facilitate communication with anonymous
reporters and will enable the department to track and trend hotline data. Ms. Wahl also noted the
restructuring of the MetroI-Iealth Compliance Committee to include a cross section of operational
leaders. Each area has established a monitoring and educational goal that addresses regulatory risk.

Jim Mylen, Partner with KPMG Advisory Services, serves as MetroHealth?s Director of Internal
Audit and provided the committee with the Internal Audit update for the ?rst quarter of 2018. Mr.
Mylen introduced Robin Barre, Director, who joined the Internal Audit team. Mr. Mylen
proceeded with providing an update on the 2018 Internal Audit Plan and an overview of the two
reports that were issued during the ?rst quarter. He also presented updates on the ?ve audits that
are underway and the planning for the 2018 second quarter internal audits. Internal Audit also
plans on implementing a Sarbanes-?Oxley lite program during the year by helping management
implement procedures designed to support the ?nancial reporting process on a quarterly basis. As
risks associated with use of third parties continues to increase, internal audit will help management
evaluate controls performed by third parties by obtaining and evaluating Service Organization
Controls (SOC) reports that cover ?nancial, Operational and security controls in place at the third

party.

A motion was made, seconded and passed to approve the 2018 Internal Audit Charter as presented
by KPMG.

Mr. Richmond introduced Daniel Clark, Interim Chief Information Of?cer, who provided a Cyber
Security Program update that focused on health care industry trends and the on-going importance of
a cyber security program and culture. Mr. Clark stated MetroHealth?s education and awareness
regarding utilizing email phishing simulation continues to show signi?cant improvements. They
continue to explore opportunities with potential partners to help complete a Cyber Maturity

Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting Minutes
March 21,2018
Page 3 of 3

Assessment that builds on previous cyber work and the formation of a Cyber Incident Response
Team. An updated ?Email use policy? has been recently completed and cyber education and
training modules are in the process of being acquired and rolled out to employees.

A motion was made, seconded and passed to move the Committee into Executive Session to discuss
trade secrets and litigation matters. The Committee returned to regular session at 3 :47 pm.

NON-CONSENT ITEMS

A. No items at this time

IV. CONSENT ITEMS

A. A Recommendation to Approve Changes to the Hospital and Professional Charge Description
Master (CDM) File

The Committee unanimously approved the recommendation for full Board action.

B. A Recommendation for Certain Amended Delegations Related to the Management and Control
of the Hospital

The Committee unanimously approved the recommendation for full Board action.

C. A Recommendation for Acceptance of the 2017 Results Compared to the 2017 Plan Measures
and Goals for Performance Based Variable Compensation Program

The Committee unanimously approved the recommendation for full Board action.

D. A Recommendation for Approval of 201 8 Metrics for Performance Based Variable
Compensation Plan

The Committee unanimously approved the recommendation for full Board action.

There being no further business to bring before the Committee, the meeting was adjourned at 3:55 pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Craig Richmond

Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Of?cer

