PATIENT EXPERIENCE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
DATE : MAY 9, 2018
CHAIR: MAUREEN DEE

PLACE: K-107
CALLED TO ORDER: 10:10AM

CHAIR: THOMAS M. MCDONALD

X

Akram Boutros, MD, FACHE

Patricia Morgan, PFA

X

Michael Stern

X

Laurel Domanski Diaz, PFA

X

Bernard Boulanger

X

Johanna Hamm, PFA

X

Sara Laskey, MD

X

Jane Platten
Melissa Kline
Larry Chadwick
John Moss
Nabil Chehade, MD
Seona Goerndt

ADJOURNED: 12:00PM

RECORDER: CHRISTINE BUCKLEY

X
E
X

TOPIC

Presenters:
Tony Minor, Manager Faith
Communities Outreach
Karen Cook, Manager Community
Health Advocacy Initiative
Jennifer Esposito, Senior Director of
Access
Raymond Hong, MD
Katie Davis, MSN, RN, PHNA-BC,
Director of School Health Program
Linda Jackson, Director Arts in
Medicine
Sara Laskey, MD

DISCUSSION

Review of Minutes

Minutes from the February 14th meeting approved as written.

Toward a Trauma Informed Community
Response

Karen Cook & Rev. Dr. Tony Minor presented community health needs assessment and why it is needed.
MetroHealth undertook CHNA process in 2017. The priorities of his initiative are infant mortality, opioid epidemic,
racial/ethnic disparities in chronic disease, community building in Clark-Fulton neighborhood and communi9ty
trauma in east side neighborhood.
The report “Adverse Community Experiences and Resilience: A Framework for Addressing and Preventing
Community Trauma” notes that there are symptoms or manifestations of trauma at the community level, which are:




1

The social-culture environment manifestation
The physical/build environment manifestations
The economic environment manifestations.

ACTION
ITEM/FOLLOW UP

 Patient Experience Board of Trustees Committee
Minutes – May 9, 2018
Continued

TOPIC

DISCUSSION
Toward the strategy the project is connected to the Community Health Assessment and is one of the five priorities.
MetroHealth began meeting with clergy to discuss community health and a possible collaboration and a response
to trauma has selected as an issue of mutual concern. Considering the creation of Community Health Circles, one
strategy to combat community trauma, as trauma healing strategy.
The project is considering targeting one community to serve as the Micro Healing community, the Mt.
Pleasant/Buckeye neighborhood with John Adams High School as the center, to receive services to combat
trauma.
Considering a Community Trauma Awareness Certificate program to train community members on ways to identify
and assist persons experiencing trauma and toxic stress.
The Healing Circle will have Healing Tables consisting of residents, faith leaders, youth and agency
representatives. They will focus on issues related to crime prevention, trauma informed social and mental health,
youth services and equity and economic development.


The Network Service Center and the
MyMetro Program

Next Steps:
* Continue to meet, plan and train pastors (and community members) on
community trauma and trauma informed care.
* Develop a memorandum of understanding with three churches to begin
community-based trauma informed follow-up support services.
* Consider and select local and national consultant to assist with project
development.
* Engage in planning to develop a project framework.

The goal is to create an environment that is warm and welcoming.
The objective is to develop a new Metrohealth patient access model that is simple for patients, results in
appropriate resolution every time and uses MH resources efficiently and effectively. This was developed in 2016.
Phase 1 of implantation is complete. The next steps are to optimize Phase 1 departments using dashboard date to
increase access and utilization. The kick off MyMetro Phase 2 is May 10, 2018. Then Implement Customer
Relationship Management application (CRM) to track requests from end to end in June.

2

ACTION
ITEM/FOLLOW UP

 Patient Experience Board of Trustees Committee
Minutes – May 9, 2018
Continued

TOPIC

DISCUSSION
The program is building the foundation for the healthcare needs of the future. With creating automation to route
the message, when we can’t accomplish it, to make sure the right person receives the information and is held
accountable to follow through with the request. The program also is centrally managing referrals. If a PCP needs
to send to a different provider, it will trigger to make a phone call to schedule that appointment.
Also, an access dashboard was created so it can measure to no show rates and constantly watching to see what
needs to be adjusted. Creating this analytics and transparency is key to making sure this works into the future.

The SAFE Project
Students are Free to Express

The School Health Program served 13 schools within Cleveland Metropolitan School District. It provides access to
preventive health care and link to Patient Centered Medical Home. The program is focusing on care coordination
and population health initiatives to achieve both health and educational outcomes.
In 2017 News Channel 5 reported that Cleveland Metropolitan School District has highest suicide rates of any
school district in the US. To meet the needs of the community the Adolescent mental health screening pilot was
implemented. The pilot screened students with increased exposure to trauma and stressors, at -risk for mood and
anxiety. The mental health Screening Pilot screened for depression, anxiety, substance abuse and suicidality
which aligned with the National School-Based Health Alliance.
At John Adams High School (Spring 2017) 43% of students came back positive (this was determined by any
student that came in for any type of a visit) Lincoln-West: 2017-2018 52% came back positive. Students are
believing that these types of feelings/violence’s are “normal” by having this screening it’s promoting the prevention
of the violence’s and suicidal feelings.
In the future looking at the screenings for high school students a standard of care. Expanding professional
development for the teachers. Partnering with Pastoral Care for Mental Health first aid training.
Arts in Medicine can be a powerful vehicle for helping our youth express their stories and change the course or
their lives. They can be a powerful too in shaping how we see, understand and engage with one another. The arts
can be a means to address mental health, and the stressors our children face including gun and domestic

3

ACTION
ITEM/FOLLOW UP

 Patient Experience Board of Trustees Committee
Minutes – May 9, 2018
Continued

TOPIC

DISCUSSION

ACTION
ITEM/FOLLOW UP

violence, social and economic justice, safety an addiction. We know that it’s a galvanizing force as we seen it
through this pilot to build engagement among students, parents and educators.
The partner for the SAFE Project partnered with Kulture Kids led by artistic director Robin Pease. They are the
leading provider of arts in the community for schools, arts organizations and communities. This pilot worked with
three schools: John Adams High School (10th grade, 97 students), Lincoln West School of Global Studies (9th
grade, 81 students) and Lincoln West School of Science and Health (9th grade, 66 students). The pilot was a 10week residences integrated in the Language Arts class.
In-School residency are using the arts as a catalyst to address the mental health and wellbeing of our students
and are piloting an integrative initiative focused on primary prevention
A reflection from the faculty and teaching artists was that the classroom became a SAFE place where students
trusted teachers and reached out for help.
Data Review

Likelihood to recommend Office ~ 2017 Baseline: 91.8 2018 Goal 92.8. Significant improvement

DRAFT: Executive Dashboard 1 month drop – March has some significant issues due to contact center issues.
Everything on outpatient side has significantly improved from last year and continues to improve.

Dr. Boutros Closing

This is Dr. Sara Laskey’s last Board Meeting. Dr. Boutros wanted to publicly acknowledge Dr. Laskey’s leadership
and how she made this program a reality. She has left an indelible mark on MetroHealth and is ahead of anyone
else in this organization when you thought of thinking of taking care and treating our patients. Nothing says more
about your work than Welcome. Listen. Care. Dr. Boutros thinks it’s an absolute winner of an idea that will become
part of this organization for many, many years to come. Thank you for doing so many remarkable things! Thank
you on behalf of our patients and the rest of our organization.

4

Going to
separate Express
Care/Drug Mart
Goals to be
specific to their
environment.

 