Summit County Opiate Task Force
Key Stakeholders Quarterly Meeting
Summit County Public Health Auditorium
1867 W. Market St. Suite A, Akron, OH

MEETING NOTES 3/20/2019
ATTENDEES:
60 Community Stakeholders were in attendance.
MEETING MATERIALS:
The following meeting materials were distributed: Agenda; Data Dashboard; various agency
handouts and event fliers.
GENERAL UPDATES:
China Darrington, Opiate & Addiction Task Force Project Coordinator, welcomed everyone to the
meeting.
•

Introduction and Overview – Ms. Darrington reviewed the mission of the Summit County
Opiate Task Force, and its six Subcommittees will report out individually.

•

Drug Safe Hudson Task Force Report –Jamie Messenger reported on:
o Placement of Deterra bags with each new resident at new nursing home in Hudson
o Library is on board to pass out Deterra bags and display Drug Free Hudson materials.
o Deterra bags will go out with each prescription filled by dentists in Hudson area
o Working with counselors. Hudson has Drug Free Clubs of America in schools. Has
doubled in past year.
o New Athletic Director at Hudson HS contacted. Information sheets developed for
athletes
o High use of vaping in both middle schools and high school. Community event on April 20
at Hudson High School will address the issue.
o Connecting with Police Department. Scheduled to do Drug Take Back Day with them
next month. October Drug Take Back Day garnered 81 pounds of pills.
o Faith groups very interested
o Drugs and alcohol not my problem, it’s our problem. To see city of Hudson come on
board is an amazing experience.

•

Green Drug Task Force Report – Bob Bender reported:
o Green Task Force’s 20+ members meet once a month. Members are available to cover
any event in Green.
o Recent Board of Education event hosted 1,000 attendees. Task Force members staffed
the event.

Mission: The Summit County Opiate Task Force is a group of key individuals and organizations committed to
reducing the tragic consequences of opiate abuse in Summit County through education, collaboration, and the wise
use of available resources.

 o
o
o
o
o

o
o

Green High School has six youth on the Task Force. Main interest in vaping and trying to
educate the community.
Hosted several sessions of “Hidden in Plain Sight” for parents only. Next presentation is
April 25th at 6:00 pm, at Central Park Community Center.
Hosted a three-part series with physicians from Summa. Last part scheduled for April 6th
at City Hall: “Managing Chronic Pain.”
Commented that Facebook posts have been very disturbing. Lots to do yet.
Faith communities in Green will host a “Crisis Awareness Sunday” on May 5th. Green
Drug Task Force will be working with pastors/leaders to develop messages regarding
drug abuse and recovery and a member will be available to answer questions after
services. (flyer available)
Working to engage businesses in the community in more ways.
Reported on Quick Response Team (QRT) in Green.

•

United Way Addiction Leadership Council – Report tabled.

•

Summit County Public Health – Jackie Pollard representing.
Information available in the Data Dashboard regarding Summit Safe needle exchange and
Project Dawn

DATA DASHBOARD
Jerry Craig, Executive Director of the County of Summit ADM Board presented the quarterly Dashboard
(see attached)
• Medical Examiner’s Office reported 109 Drug Overdose Deaths in 2018; preliminarily the
Medical Director’s office reported 29 deaths possibly attributed to drug overdoses through
March 18th. Although too early to predict, this represents an increase over the same period in
2018.
• OARRS (Ohio Automated Rx Reporting System) Report indicates a decrease in opioid doses
dispensed per capita to Ohio patients by County and Quarter as shown in Montgomery
County which is similar in demographics to Summit, to below 9 for first time.
• D.U.M.P. Box sites and Drug Take Back Day (twice a year) finally crossed threshold of 10,000
lbs. of unused meds collected. Includes all drugs, not just opioids.
• DAWN Kits and Syringe Exchange programs data revealed 1,609 trainings, with 1,309 kits
dispensed.
• ADM Helpline Report indicated 63 scheduled appointments in February, 2019, with average
access time to appointment of 4.6 days.
• Days to access of Residential Care for Individuals on the Residential Wait List is down to
almost no wait time.
• Detox availability is almost immediate due to the County of Summit ADM increasing capacity,
which eliminated a wait for Summit County residents. Capacity for women is lower.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
• Policy & Advocacy Committee – Ms. Darrington reported that Michael Evans will be the new
committee chair. Committee did amazing work last year to keep the Task Force advised as to
goal information. Pointed out that new Governor, Mike Dewine’s 12-point Recovery Ohio
Plan is giving awareness a nice push.

Mission: The Summit County Opiate Task Force is a group of key individuals and organizations committed to
reducing the tragic consequences of opiate abuse in Summit County through education, collaboration, and the wise
use of available resources.

 •

Family Supports – Nicole Jones reported that the committee is working on goals for 2019:
o Continuing to support families addressing addiction and developing support for someone
who has lost someone to addiction.
o Continuing to promote harm reduction via Naloxone and syringe exchange programs
o Calendar magnets are available for distribution; resources will be updated every three
months with items/groups found to be particularly effective when dealing with addiction
or loss of loved ones through addiction.
o Next meeting is May 15th.

•

Public Awareness – Chrissy Gashash reported that the Public Awareness committee had met
on March 15th:
o Reviewing national campaign for awareness of addiction and tailoring to needs: vaping
and methamphetamines a new focus
o Priority to sponsor some community events: Ohio CAN Steps, Running to Be Well, and
Keys to Serenity just a few
o Working with Summit County Public Health and The University of Akron for conference,
“Addictions & Opiates: What’s New, What’s Next” on June 14th for clinical and general
public; leaders are applying for CEUs for social workers, family therapists, RNs and other
health professionals. Registration will be available shortly.
o Committee was established to support efforts of the entire Task Force and would like to
get involved to assist other committees. Encouraged others to contact them for
assistance.
o Inquiry made as to committee’s community event involvement. Lucky Tisch reported:
§ Hudson on March 16th
§ Nordonia on March 23rd
§ Others upcoming throughout the year

•

Criminal Justice – report tabled.

•

Healthcare Committee – Dr. Garry Thrasher from Oriana House reported:
o Detox is not treatment… It leads to treatment and recovery, and recovery leads to a
better life.
o Sometimes there is a gap leading to treatment, with one gap being transportation to
detox. Looking at Uber or Lyft services being justified in getting patients where they
need to go.
o First Up Program – role in detox is to bridge people until they can get into treatment.
o With regard to the meth crisis …what we have is an addiction epidemic.
o Holding meetings with physicians, local ERs, ADM Board, and Oriana House to coordinate
care.
o No MAT that is required for meth abuse.
o Patients can come to Psychiatric Emergency Services (PES) and to detox if can manage in
detox setting and can do so as long as not a threat to staff or other clients. Patients can
be kept for 24 hours to stabilize.
o Question posed as to where we are with patients with meth use issues? Dr. Thrasher
responded that they are detoxing patients with mild psychosis, and continuing to
investigate the best treatment options in the community.

Mission: The Summit County Opiate Task Force is a group of key individuals and organizations committed to
reducing the tragic consequences of opiate abuse in Summit County through education, collaboration, and the wise
use of available resources.

 Dr. Doug Smith, Chief Clinical Officer of the ADM Board, reported on the status of the State’s
Universal Release or “Standard Form.” It has a full page all about HIPAA, and 42 CFR 42;
Patients need to use one side or the other. He explained use of the form which, when
signed, requires another agency to honor the form if signed. The Universal Release is to
launch on April 1st. It was presented at the ADM Board’s Providers’ meeting and to the
Criminal Justice/Mental Health Forum, and has been tested at the Summit County Jail and in
Barberton. Release has also been presented at CHOICES for consumers’ review and to
another large consumer based group. Working on a secure portal for entering data into a
database to give immediate access as to limited information regarding agency involvement.
Release needs to be signed when someone is well, not when in crisis. Form will allow for
time limits, with suggestion made for up to a three year term, or “until no longer served by
Agency” type language.
•

Youth and Young Adults – Katie VanHorn from Juvenile Court indicated the committee has
met twice since December.
o Looking into prevention resources for youth.
o Creating calendars for CYs 20-21, with activities to be determined. Committee will be
adding calendar items until its next meeting and will continue to do so until end of CY.
o Hoping to add coupons to the calendars.
o First youth member attended the last meeting.
o Next meeting is May 15th at 4:00 pm.
Family Support Group wants to create a pro-recovery calendar; not necessarily focused on
addiction related issues, but sober activities for 365 days. Will reach out to Public Awareness
for additional ideas.

GENERAL ANNOUNCEMENTS & UPCOMING EVENTS
• Mr. Craig announced that the Governor’s Budget was released on Friday. He will prepare a
one pager for Opiate & Addiction Task Force website, noting items that relate directly to
what we do. He noted that a good opportunity to engage the community is to go down to
legislature to advocate for what we do.
•

Dr. Thrasher reported on the 6th Annual Medical Conference for Mental Health and
Addictions. Thanked Oriana House and ADM Board. Mainly focused on physicians but
supplied CEUs to other professionals. Over 250 people registered for the event which
provided education to the medical community about mental health, substance abuse and
addiction and increasing their awareness about what is going on locally and resources
available in the community. Many don’t know a detox facility exists in Summit County/Akron.

•

Brenda Ryan from Keys to Serenity announced the new program “Keys to Parenting
again…” for grandparents raising grandchildren because of addiction issues. Starting 4/9,
meetings will be held monthly on second Tuesdays at 6:00 pm, at ARC on Market. And on
August 10th, they are teaming up with OhioCAN for “2nd Annual Keys to the Heart” event for
kids with addiction issues in their home.

Mission: The Summit County Opiate Task Force is a group of key individuals and organizations committed to
reducing the tragic consequences of opiate abuse in Summit County through education, collaboration, and the wise
use of available resources.

 •

Bernie Rochford commented on the Couch to 5K training by the Running to Be Well group:
Mondays at 6:30 in the Valley.

•

Laura Broyles announced the Hope United support group for families who have lost
someone to addiction, “The Well.” First meeting is this Wednesday, at Crossview Church, 737
George Washington Blvd., Akron.

•

Ruth Stimac, Assistant County Coordinator for OhioCAN, reported that the City of Cuyahoga
Falls, the ADM Board, TurningPoint program, and Summit County Juvenile Court are
partnering on “Pain into Purpose: Steps of Change” on May 18th. Will include a walk for
those lost to addiction in the past year.

•

Beth Kuckuck pointed out the Northeast Ohio Healing Arts Alliance’s “Healing Arts Drop-In”
on April 9th, 5:30-7:30 pm, at Summit Artspace, 140 E. Market St., Akron.

•

A representative from SCCS announced that April is “Child Abuse Prevention Month.”
Presentation on April 16th, “Implicit Bias.” CEUs available.

•

China Darrington reminded members of:
o 6/14 event at The University of Akron
o 4/16 DTF Summa “Be Drug Safe” event “Beyond Drugs”
o 6/1 ADM Recovery Challenge 5K obstacle course

Ms. Darrington thanked members for their continued support.
Meeting adjourned at 5:25 p.m.
NEXT OATF MEETING DATE: June 12, 2019 – 4:00 p.m.

Mission: The Summit County Opiate Task Force is a group of key individuals and organizations committed to
reducing the tragic consequences of opiate abuse in Summit County through education, collaboration, and the wise
use of available resources.

 