The MetroHealth System
Board of Trustees
Community Engagement Committee
April 18, 2018
Present Committee Members:

Maureen Dee, Tom McDonald

Other Trustees:

J.B. Silvers

Advisory Committee Members:

Dr. Shanail Berry, Linda Bluso, Dr. Nabil Chehade, Fran
Dacek, Gail Long, Rev. Tony Minor, Karen Mintzer

Staff:

Dr. Akram Boutros, Elizabeth Allen, Mike Phillips, Jane
Platten

Guest:

Rita Andolsen, Director, Community Communications &
Engagement, Dr. James Misak, Vice Chair of Community
and Population Health, Dept. of Family Medicine
Karen Cook, Manager, Community Health Advocacy

Initiative
The meeting was called to order by Tom McDonald at 10:00 a.m.
(The minutes are written in a format conforming to the printed meeting agenda for the
convenience of correlation, recognizing that some of the items were discussed out of sequence.)
I.

Approval of Minutes – December 20, 2017
The minutes of the December 20, 2017 Community Engagement Committee meeting
were approved as presented.

II.

Information Items
1. Progress update on Community Health Needs Assessment and Five Priority Areas
Ms. Cook informed the Committee that the Community Health Needs Assessment
report was released publicly in late March. The full report along with executive
summaries in English and Spanish are available on MetroHealth’s website. Ms. Cook
then provided updates on each of the five identified priority areas, with some key
metrics identified for future reporting on progress.

 2. Progress update on Infant Mortality and Opioid Epidemic
Ms. Cook noted that much of the work that MetroHealth is doing to address the
Opioid Epidemic stems from the Office of Opioid Safety. She highlighted two areas
under this priority that will be tracked. One of these is Quick Response Teams –
teams of a social worker and law enforcement official that provide a home visit in the
wake of an overdose, to provide information, a Narcan kit, and linkages to treatment.
Ms. Cook also noted the Know the Risks
multi-media campaign as a method of
increasing public awareness about the risks of prescription opioids. Rita Andolsen
played a significant role in the creation of this campaign, along with partners in
County government and the media. Expansion of this program will be monitored for
the Committee.
Rita Andolsen then provided an update about the Infant Mortality priority area.
MetroHealth was a founding member of First Year Cleveland and has agreed to be a
lead agency for the safe sleep arm of their work. Safe Sleep Heroes will be trained in
safe sleep practices and will raise awareness in communities and with high-risk
individuals. A two-year commitment and grant funding was approved. The second
component to be tracked is the Nurse Family Partnership, a program for first-time,
low-income mothers from pregnancy through their child’s second birthday. The
program aims for improved pregnancy outcomes, improved child health and
development, and economic self-sufficiency for the family.
3. Progress update on Chronic Disease
Dr. James Misak discussed progress on the Chronic Disease priority. Based on
MetroHealth’s VIDA program, a pilot program is being developed to address
uncontrolled diabetes in a group of MetroHealth patients. This 8-week program
includes cooking lessons, diabetes self-management education, and lifestyle
modification including increased physical activity. Based on the success of the pilot,
the program can be modified for other communities. Dr. Misak noted that surveys and
biometrics lab values will be done before and after the program.
4. Progress update on Community Trauma
Rev. Tony Minor discussed the Community Trauma priority. The focus is on adverse
community conditions, taking the focus off the person and dealing more with the
place and with the residual impacts of trauma, violence and guns on the entire
community. The goal is to target one community on the East side and work with the
local pastors of that community. Rev. Minor explained the idea of a Healing Circle, a
planning table made up of residents and community organizations, to address
community issues and to link people in need with services. The next step is to have a
training workshop with pastors on trauma and to be able to differentiate between
clinical and community trauma.

 5. Update on Partnership with Open Table
Dr. Boutros and Jane Platten then highlighted MetroHealth’s new partnership with
Open Table. This is a one-year contract with a commitment of one hour a week to
host tables of 6-8 community volunteers who can provide advice, guidance to persons
who are living in poverty and need help to pull themselves up. MetroHealth
committed to 15 tables. We will be looking for some employees who need help in
addition to community members.
6. Update on Community Building in the Clark-Fulton Neighborhood
Ms. Cook noted significant initiatives that are in development in the neighborhood,
such as the Eco-District and the work of CCH and the Office of Community and
Economic Development. Dr. Boutros noted that we are hoping to demonstrate that if
MetroHealth can impact neighborhood revitalization and still be a viable
organization, then other large corporations can do it as well. Our hope is to become a
model for others to follow suit.
In closing, Dr. Boutros noted that he would like this Committee to hold the
organization accountable and to make sure we are delivering on our commitment to
the identified community priorities.
III.

Non-Consent Action Items - None

IV.

Consent Items - None

There being no further business, the meeting adjourned at 11:16 a.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elizabeth Heller Allen
Senior Vice President, External Affairs

 