EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
April 24, 2019
Committee Members Present: Mr. McDonald, Dr. Silvers, Ms. Whiting
Additional Trustees Present:

Mr. Hairston, Jr., Mr. Hurwitz, Mr. Moss

Staff Present:

Dr. Boutros, Dr. Boulanger, Ms. Jacono, Ms. Platten, Ms. Rajki,
Mr. Richmond, Mr. Stern

Ms. Whiting called the meeting to order at 8:00 a.m.
The minutes for the meeting of February 27, 2019, were approved as submitted.
Update on Jail
Ms. Whiting indicated that the first item to come before the Committee was an update on
MetroHealth’s operations in connection with the County Jail. Jane Platten, Chief of Staff,
provided the Committee with an update on these activities as MetroHealth transitions into
providing medical care at the jail under the new contract with the County.
She indicated that in terms of staffing that good progress was being made, 66 offers have been
made and 36 County employees had accepted offers and a total of 63 offers had been accepted at
this time, with total program staff needed being 101. She also indicated that a Director of
Operations had been hired as well as a Nurse Manager. Ms. Platten also indicated that we
continue to move forward in attempting to fill all positions and are considering County
employees are ahead of schedule in terms of staffing. She also reviewed the existing union
relationships for certain County employees at the jail.
She noted that in terms of the transition and MetroHealth’s ongoing efforts for improvement that
Dr. Julia Bruner was taking the lead. Ongoing improvement is being made including
enhancement of intake and safety matters as well as an updated protocol for responses to medical
emergencies at the jail, new policies relating to medical staff safety as well as implementing new
Tele-psych and pharmacy capabilities.
Dr. Boutros and Ms. Platten answered questions from Committee members regarding a recent
Plain Dealer story and reviewed current discussions and relationships with the County unions.
Proposed Professional and Consultants Processes/Policy
The next item of business was a proposal from Dr. Boutros concerning proposed changes in
processes and policy relating to the retention of Professionals and Consultants under the existing
Board policy. Mr. Phillips provided a background and history review and an update on the

 current operations of this policy as well as other Board resolutions delegating authority to the
CEO. Mr. Phillips and Dr. Boutros outlined proposed changes for discussion and the Board
engaged in a detailed review with numerous questions being asked and answered. The
Committee concluded that they would continue to evaluate this proposal and discuss it with
Dr. Boutros of management.
Executive Session
Ms. Whiting indicated that the remaining matters to be considered involved Trade Secrets and
personnel and related compensation matters. At 8:40 a.m., upon unanimous roll call vote, the
Committee went into Executive Session to discuss such matters.
At the end of Executive Session, the Committee reconvened the meeting in open session and the
meeting was adjourned at 10:25 a.m.
Respectfully submitted,

Ms. Vanessa Whiting
Chair

2

 