       

American Legion American Veterans Disabled American Veterans Veterans oFI?oreign Wars
MEL BAUER FRANK POCCI CHRISTOPHER GRAU CLAYTON E. IIZEIJ. BOB POTTS
COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER
Cuyahoga County
JON REISS . 
Exam-momma. Veterans Se1v1ce Comm1551on

P11: 216.698.2600 0 Fax: 216.698.2650
Email: vscmail@cuyahogacounty.us
1849 Prospect Avenue 0 Suite 150 I C1eve1and,OH 44115

MINUTES

June 19, 2019 9:30 am.

PRESENT: Clay Uzell, President
Mel Baher, Vice President
Christopher Grau, Secretary
Frank Pocci, Commissioner
Bob Potts, Commissioner
Jon Reiss, Executive Director
Mary Kitko, Executive Secretary
Brian Gutkoski, Asst. County Prosecutor

EXCUSED: None.
VISITORS: None.
PURPOSE: GENERAL MEETING

The meeting was called to order by President Clay Uzell followed by the Pledge of Allegiance.

A motion was made by Mel Baher and seconded by Bob Potts to dispense with the reading of the Consent
Agenda and to accept the agenda with the necessary corrections and/or additions. (All Commissioners
have a copy of the minutes). All items were set aside for discussion under Executive Session.

AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

STATE OF THE COMMISSION AND FINANCE REPORT (Attached)

A motion was made by Frank Pocci and seconded by Chris Grau to dispense with the reading of the State
of the Commission and Finance Report and to accept the State of the Commission and Finance Report
with the necessary corrections and/0r additions.

AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

A motion was made by Mel Baher and seconded by Frank Pocci to go out of the regular order of business
and into Executive Session to interview candidates for Bus Ticket Specialist and to discuss an employee
review, Resolution 2018-13, and items set aside from the consent agenda.

AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

?Veterans HeIping Veterans Since 1886? Internet 0 

EXECUTIVE SESSION:
The Board came out of Executive Session and returned to the regular order of business at 10:39 am.

In Executive Session, the Board conducted three (3) interviews for Bus Ticket Specialist, discussed an
employee ninety (90) day review, Resolution 2018?13, and all items from the consent agenda. The
Executive Director was directed on how to proceed.

A motion was made by Chris Grau and seconded by Frank Pocci to extend an offer to Adam Radikovich
as Bus Ticket Specialist and to bring him on board immediately.
AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

OLD BUSINESS:

The Executive Director proposed the purchase of one high top commercial vehicle van for the as
a mobile office to be used for outreach events. The Board authorized the Executive Director to obtain
quotes and present a ?nal proposal at an upcoming board meeting, expenses not to exceed $200,000.

Action Items Update:

1) Employee Overpayments Two former employees are expected to make payments
until the overpayment is completely paid back. One continues to make the payment
and the other has made no payments. Brian Gutkoski advised the Commissioners on how he
will proceed with collection of the overpayment.

2) Emergency Plan for Files. Larry Amato is getting quotes for off-site storage of ?les and
destruction of ?les that no longer need to be retained according to policy.

3) Dental Trial Program Feronne Williams is in contact with Metro to discuss the current
program. He will also be reaching out to area dentists to see if they would be interested in
working with the VSC.

4) Resolution 2018?13: VVA Compensation Removed for discussion in Executive Session.

5) New Schedule Report The VSC will continue the current operating schedule for the rest of
2019. The Executive Director will provide updated statistics in September to determine if the
hours of 8:00 am. to 6:00 pm. will continue in 2020.

6) 2019 Evening Outreach Meeting on Reiss has made arrangements to have the fall evening
outreach meeting at Baldwin Wallace. The Commissioners will also be able to tour the new
Veterans? House. -

7) Memorandum of Understanding work in progress. Jon Reiss will be meeting with Hands
on Northeast Ohio. The VSC will be responsible for the veteran?s side of the homeless stand.

8) Job Description Review Two job descriptions will be pulled and presented to the Board at
each meeting with suggested changes. The changes will be reviewed, updated, and approved
at the meeting.

9) Overtime Impact Study Overtime expense for the last four (4) pay periods was $2,882.
This is well within the allotted budget.

10) Laptop Replacement The Commissioner?s laptops will be replaced with Microsoft Surface
Pro tablets/laptops. The laptops will be cleaned up and used in other capacities.

NEW BUSINESS:
The 2020 holiday schedule and personal day agenda items have been removed pending the outcome of the

collective bargaining ballot.

Valor 4 Vet is a non-pro?t organization that employs doctors who provide a nexus statement for veterans
who are unable to obtain one from the VA or their own doctor. The statement suggests a correlation

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886? Internet - 

between the veteran?s medical issues and his/her time in the service. These statements are used when the
veteran ?les a claim for service connection. The Board agreed to work with Valor 4 Vet for a trial period
to determine the need for this service.

GOOD OF THE ORDER:
The Executive Director mentioned an update to Sunshine Laws. If there is a quorum present at the
meeting, those that are unable to be present may participate in the meeting remotely.

Jon Reiss was asked to contact Bill Sink to get details on events at the USS Cod.
With no further business, a motion was made by Bob Potts and seconded by Frank Pocci to adjourn the

meeting at 11:30 am.
AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

Clay?i izell, President 

 

CONTACT INFORMATION
Requests for Financial Assistance/
Filing claims with the Dept. of

Veterans? Affairs/Memorial Affairs: Melinda Halliburton, Service Office Mgr. (216-698-2639)
Charlene Amos, Service Of?ce Mgr. (216-698-3831)
Finance Dept.: Larry Amato, Financial Operations Mgr. (216?698-2391)
Social Work Dept.: Terry Walker, Social Worker/Case Mgmt. (216-698-2379)
Executive Director: Jon Reiss (216?698-2611)
Commissioners: Mary Kitko, Secretary to the Board (216-698?2652)

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886? Internet 0 

