DATE:

TIME:

PLACE:

COMMITTEE

TRUSTEES:

STAFF:

ABSENT:

THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM

BOARD OF TRUSTEES

REGULAR MEETING

QUALITY 8: SAFETY
February 13, 2019
12:00 pm.
MetroHeaith Medical Center
K107, Business Services Building
Mr. Moss, Mr. McDonald, Dr. Silvers
Ms. Abramov, Ms. Booker, Dr. Chehade, Dr. Crowe, Dr. Golob, Mr. Gutridge, Mr.
Hairston, Mr. Kaufmann, Ms. Kiedio, Ms. Kline, Ms. McBride, Mr. Stern, Dr.

Watts, Dr. Werner

Dr. Boulanger, Dr. Boutros, Dr. Mercer, Ms. Platten, Mr. Sukalac

Mr. Moss called the regular meeting of the Quality 8: Safety Committee to order at 12:04 pm.

I. Approval of Minutes November 14, 2018

The minutes of the November 14, 2018 Quality Safety Committee Meeting were approved
as presented.

Ii. DISCUSSION ITEMS

A. 2018 Goal Performance Mr. Kaufmann

Mr. Kaufmann reviewed the 2018 System Goals. Thirteen goals were scored. The new
processes implemented by the nursing staff resulted in significant improvement on the
falls screening. HAC reductions showed a significant shift in 2018 thanks to Dr. Golob
and his team. This is the lowest in MetroHeaIth?s history and currently number one in
the state. Mr. Kaufmann reviewed the HAC PSI Composite scores with the board. SSI
Infections achieved five points, which Is over our target goal. There was improvement in
the colon and hysterectomy areas. OR contaminated needle sticks were down this year
due to training with OR staff and new processes put in place. We have worked with a
lot of outside sources that use a tool called Wayfinder. This tool does not report in real?
time. We are in the process of finalizing a contract with Vizient, which would allow us to
have a more real~time picture of how we compare to out competitors.

B. The Joint Commission Mr. Kaufmann
Mr. Kaufmann shared the Joint Commission Accreditation Certificates. We are now a
fully accredited hospital. We are anticipating a visit from the Joint Commission Stroke
Surveyor to review our pian to expand the stroke centers to qualify as acute stroke
centers. The Joint Commission C00 and CMC) will visit MetroHealth in March.

C. Patient Safety Week - March 11-15 Ms. Booker
Ms. Booker asked the board members to save the date of March 12th from 5:00 pm. to
7:00 pm. in Scott Auditorium for the ?To Err is Human? screening and panel discussion
with key leaders from our team including, Dr. Golob, Dr. Boulanger, Terry Monnolly and
Melissa Kline. Patient Safety Week will be used as the platform.

D. Patient ngety Index Dr. Golob
Dr. Goiob presented the 2019 Patient Safety Program. The number of days between
preventable harm is currently at 1.57 days. The MetroHealth Preventable Harm index
was reviewed with the board members. There are 18 preventable harms monitored and
10 are in the PSI 90 composite measures. These make up 22% of our star rating. Dr.
Golob shared a new pilot that will be released on the MN soon. This real?time number
will be listed on the MIV for all staff and employees to see. There will be a link under the
score that will lead to the Quality SharePoint Site for more information. Dr. Golob
created a ranking system to show where we are in real time. He also showed how to
use the new Wayfinder tool and how we compare to other hospitals in Cleveland. Dr.
Silvers asked if we can share best practices with the other hospital systems so that we
are all providing excellent patient care to the community. Dr. Watts gave a?brief
overview of the better health model, which is a regional health collaborative to have
health organizations think of the broader health ofthe community and their own
outcomes.

E. 2019 Patient Safety 8: Quality Goals Dr. Watts
Dr. Watts reviewed the 2019 goals with the board. Dr. Watts shared that the goal for
the pediatric measure will be the immunization panel metric. There are eight different
vaccines that make up this metric. We are currently at 28% with a goal of 34%. The flu
vaccine has the greater gap amongst the vaccinations. The opportunity that has been
identified is to give vaccines on the spot anytime the child is present at a facility and is in
need. Dr. Watts stated that we had 74 cases of C.Diff in the past year and our goal is to
reduce this number by 50%. She stated that we are reviewing what the baseline is in
the community for C.Diff and testing methodology has changed from previous years. An
algorithm has been created for the clinical team to determine if the case is to be used in
the hospital tracking metrics or if it was already present in the patient prior to their visit
or admission.

F. Dermatology Ql Project Dr. Crowe
Dr. Crowe presented the Dermatology Quality Measures to the Board. Dr. Crowe stated
the most common types ofskin cancers and the percentages of each. Ohio has been
ranked in melanoma cases by state. He also shared a new way to detect cancer with
the Epic Haku which allows the physician to take a picture and upload it directly into
Epic for other providers to View. This has improved patient satisfaction and brought
quality goals to around 80%. The goal is 100% and with Haku Dr. Crowe believes this is
attainable.

Ill. ITEMS
None
N. CONSENT ITEMS
A. Recommendation to the Board of Trustees of the MetroHealth System for the
Observance of National Nurses Week, May 6, 2019 through May 10, 2019. Mr. Moss
asked the Board for an approval of the Observance of National Nurses Week. Mr.

McDonald motioned, Dr. Silvers seconded, and the Board approved.

There being no further business to come before the Committee, the meeting was adjourned at 1:52 pm.

Respectfully,

Mr. John Moss, Chairman
Board of Trustees

