THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
REPORT OF THE PRESIDENT AND CEO
TO THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
REGULAR MEETING OF OCTOBER 23, 2019

Executive














MetroHealth welcomes distinguished and respected journalist Joseph Frolik to our leadership team.
named Senior Vice President, Communications, Government and Community Relations. His first day
MetroHealth was Monday, October 14, 2019. Welcome Joe!
Our employees were invited and encouraged to write an essay with their ideas about transforming G
Cleveland’s economy in support of the Cleveland Rising Summit; a workshop designed to engage a
of people to discuss and set priorities and measurable goals for Greater Cleveland’s Future. The em
will be reviewed and if chosen, they can attend the summit to share their thoughts and ideas about
Greater Cleveland. These employees can use a hospital business day so they will be paid regular sa
day.
The SunTrust Foundation recognized MetroHealth’s efforts to build stronger more financially confiden
communities with a $75,000 grant. The funds will support MetroHealth’s forthcoming Employee Hou
Assistance Program, designed to increase the number of MetroHealth employees who live within a t
radius of the hospital’s main and Old Brooklyn campuses.
Nazha Abughali, MD, Chair of the Department of Pediatrics, has been elected to be a fellow in the Pe
Infectious Diseases Society (PIDS), the world’s largest organization of professionals dedicated to the
control and eradication of infectious diseases affecting children. Congratulations Nazha!
I’m proud to announce Julie Jacono as MetroHealth’s Senior Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer
the business strategy and development, innovation, performance improvement and market intellige
growing System. She will lead MetroHealth’s strategy and expansion into nearby counties and other
business development opportunities, along with development of non-traditional business lines like L
Imaging, which MetroHealth formed with a leading radiology equipment company earlier this year. J
been an integral part of many of our major initiative over the past six years. Her intellect, experienc
enthusiasm have played a key role in our success. I am confident she will continue to do so for year
Dennis Bourbeau, PhD, Staff Scientist in the department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (PM
received a 3-year, $735,000 grand for the Craig H. Neilsen Foundation entitled “Ambulatory closed-l
stimulation to inhibit neurogenic bladder overactivity.” This award will help fund improvements for b
function in patient with spinal cord injury.
I’d like to share the success of our MetroHealth Care Partners- our System’s Accountable Care Organ
(ACO). MetroHealth’s ACO saved the federal government $6.7 million last year. Through he Medicare
Savings Program (MSSP), our System received more than $4.3 million. Our ACO savings rate of 6.9 p
us in the top 10 percent nationally and best in the nation among Essential Hospital, those with simil
profiles. Ours is the only MSSP ACO in the Greater Cleveland market to achieve shared savings for 2
Only 37 percent of the 548 MSSP ACO’s across the U.S. achieved shared savings last year.
I attended Tri-C’s Presidential Scholarship Luncheon on Friday, October 11, 2019; where Dr. Alex Joh
announced a $1 million partnership investment from MetroHealth to Tri-C. This partnership launche
scholarship fund and provides seed money to open a Tri-C Access Center at MetroHealth’s new Instit
H.O.P.E. (Health, Opportunity, Partnership and Empowerment). The Access Center will be incorporate
MetroHealth’s planned Institute for H.O.P.E, which will function as a neighborhood hub offering resou
help residents live healthier and more meaningful lives. Our investment supports Tri-C’s focus on wo
development and training residents for jobs with family-sustaining wages. In appreciation of this inv
College will rename a building at the Metropolitan Campus – the MetroHealth Science and Health Ca
building.

 Chief of Staff

Department of Public Safety
 Our officers participated in the MedSled evacuation training. This training covered the evacuation an
principles for using the MedSled device within The MetroHealth System.
 Sergeant Onix Garcia attended the Hispanic Convention on October 5, 2019, on behalf of the MetroH
Department. Sgt. Garcia distributed over 250 gun locks.
 Lieutenant Delmar Henderson was recently appointed as a Special Deputy U.S. Marshal.
 In addition to the three (3) permanent drug drop-off boxes already in place throughout The MetroHe
on October 26, 2019, the MHPD will be taking part in National Prescription Drug Take Back Day. This
safe, convenient and responsible means of disposing prescription drugs.

Government Relations
 Abigail Duggan, Senator Sherrod Brown’s senior policy advisor, visited MetroHealth on October 8, 20
discussed Medicaid policy matters with Dr. Boutros. Ms. Duggan also connected with other MetroHe
to learn more about the health system’s Institute for H.O.P.E., Food as Medicine, and Special Disease
priorities.
 On October 10, 2019, Greater Cleveland Partnership invited area employers to have a discussion ab
economic development, tax and trade policy with Senator Rob Portman’s new chief of staff, Kevin
Smith. MetroHealth’s government relations staff attended the meeting to discuss Medicaid and grad
medical education policy with Mr. Smith.
 Dr. Papp testified in the Senate Health Committee in support of SB 59, sponsored by Senator Antoni
would address the remaining pharmacies in the state who incorrectly believe a prescription is requir
dispense naloxone.

Community Relations
 Community Relations and Faith Community Outreach/Pastoral Care partnered with more than 50 chu
across the community to preach the ABCD’s of Safe Sleep and distribute safe sleep materials on Saf
Sunday, October 6, 2019. Churches included Mt. Zion Baptist Church, New Fellowship Church, South
Day, 4 Unitarian Universal Churches, Greater Cleveland Congregation and many others.
 MH-led Safe Sleep Project submitted year one report to First Year Cleveland, reporting that all goals
exceeded.
 Partnering with MH Pharmacy to print and distribute all pharmacy bags with Safe Sleep messaging d
month of October which is Safe Sleep Awareness month.
 MetroHealth partnered with CAPA (community awareness & prevention association) and the Brecksv
Broadview Heights to host a Tobacco Town Hall at our MH Brecksville facility featuring Dr. Sherrie Wi
October 21.

Communications
 MetroHealth’s nominations garnered Crain’s Cleveland Business 40 under 40 honors for two people:
who works – and volunteers – for MetroHealth’s Trauma Recovery Services, and Ricardo Leon, the dy
leader of the Metro West Community Development Organization in our Clark-Fulton neighborhood.
 John Campanelli also helped craft MetroHealth’s new Patient Financial Bill of Rights. And he snagged
interview with the 300-foot tower crane that’s helping build our new hospital.
 With Tim Magaw, our new Senior Communications Strategist overseeing social media, MetroHealth t
increased more than 150 percent; Facebook views have increased by 11 percent and Facebook resp
dropped from six hours to 25 minutes. Tim’s goal is to earn Facebook’s “very responsive” designatio
very close.
 Thanks goes out to Hyla Winston in media relations; MetroHealth received positive coverage on a nu
stories in the past month including our research on Kangaroo (skin-to-skin) Care for babies recoverin
neonatal abstinence syndrome and our Functional Electrical Stimulation work that’s restoring movem
patients with spinal cord injuries.
Page 2 of 11

 Marketing
 The web communications team’s focus on building updated and search-friendly content that is align
supports clinical marketing and digital advertising efforts is having a measurable impact. Comparing
through mid-October from 2018 to 2019, metrohealth.org has seen impressive increases in overall s
well as on clinical department sites:
Overall page views: 8.63 percent
Trauma Care page views: 41.83 percent
First time visitors to website: 26.92 percent
Flu Shot page views: 183.24 percent
Organic search traffic: 10.43 percent
Spine Center page views: 154.33 percent
Weight Management / Bariatrics page views: 974.25 percent
Sleep Surgery page views: 129.08 percent
Emergency Room page views: 197.99 percent

Center for Community Health Resilience and the Trauma Recovery Center
 On September 4, 2019, the Center partnered with NewBridge Cleveland to host an open screening o
documentary, Resilience: The Biology of Stress and the Science of Hope, at the Cleveland Institute o
Cinemateque. Nearly 100 people attended across our AM and PM offerings. We coordinated a panel
that included PEP’s Habeebah Grimes; ODE Board of Education, Meryl Johnson; Director of the Khnem
Foundation, and current MetroHealth consultant, Fred Ward; Newbridge’s, Dr. Steven Lake, and Metr
Dr. Lisa Ramirez and Sarah Hendrickson.
 On September 5, 2019, Sarah Hendrickson participated as a table expert for the United Way Commu
meeting focused on trauma. Manager, Megen Simpson, Coordinator, Stephanie Deluca, and Recover
Rhonda Jenkins were also in attendance.
 September 6, 2019, our System Analyst, Mark Kalina Jr. was awarded Crain’s Cleveland Business 40
 September 16-20, 2019, we coordinated and hosted a Mental Health First Aid Instructor Training. Th
week-long training, provided by the National Council for Behavioral Health and made possible by VO
awarded to the Trauma Recovery Center, trained 17 MetroHealth employees as certified instructors.
collaboration with the Office of Patient Experience, EAP, Pastoral Care, and Human Resources, the in
available to provide training to our system; focusing on the emergency room, front-of-house staff, an
community partners. We are grateful to the MetroHealth System for supporting staff through time to
collaboration, with OPX, EAP, and HR, we have coordinated a training schedule that will be made av
LEAP for our system. Implementation logistics are still being developed.
 September 26, 2019, Sarah Hendrickson was accepted to participate in the Governor’s Summit on P
Mental Health discussing “Connecting Healing to Health”. The daylong event in Dayton, Ohio, opene
Governor and Mayor of Dayton showcased 3 workshop sessions for medical, education, and commu
rd
respectively. Sarah Hendrickson spoke during
Community
the 3
event moderated by Dr. Alisha Nelson from t
Governor’s Recovery Ohio initiative.
 On September 30, 2019, our 2019 VOCA grant cycle came to a close. The MetroHealth Trauma Reco
1,131 victims of crime through trauma-focused therapies, victim advocacy, care navigation, peer
basic needs supports, including food, clothing, transportation, safe housing and other emotional and
supports.

Faith Community Outreach/Pastoral Care
 MetroHealth's Project Thrive, the faith-based, trauma support program operating through the Office
Care, reports that a participating congregation is continuing to support a Cleveland family whose inf
was "life-flighted" to Columbus for specialized respiratory medical services after an extended stay a
MetroHealth. The congregation is assisting with employment, housing and basic needs support as th
were forced to relocate to Columbus.
 Project Thrive recently trained the third cohort of congregations on trauma and resiliency to join Me
mitigating the effects of trauma. The training was a crucial step in forming a Northeast Healing Circl
the 3rd; other healing circles are located in Mt. Pleasant and the near west neighborhoods. Addition
Page 3 of 11

 



occurring on the Project Thrive operational structure, along with training on grief, spiritual distress a
community engagement strategies.
Project Thrive is receiving requests for community-based, trauma response support to provide "com
outreach." The congregations are trained to provide an outreach form of pastoral care in response to
stabbings, and other traumatic events. They offer comfort and care and link congregations to servic
the community through the Healing Circles.
On Wednesday, November 6, 2019, the Office of Pastoral Care will hold its first meeting of the Interf
Roundtable. The roundtable will meet quarterly and is designed for MetroHealth to continue to listen
act on behalf of all patients and to ensure that the beliefs and faith traditions of inter-faith patients a
and honored as they receive medical services. It is also a vehicle to discuss ways that we can partne
healthier and resilient communities.

Finance









RSM US LLP, the System’s external auditors, will be onsite for interim fieldwork related to the 2019 a
beginning October 14, 2019. The audit team will be conducting a risk assessment and developing t
plan. RSM US LLP will work in conjunction with KPMG, our Internal Audit team, to update their under
our internal controls.
The Financial Reporting team is performing a review of all contracts to evaluate the impact of GASB
the System. To date, 1,600 contracts have been identified that need to be evaluated for potential le
implications. Of those, approximately 300 are in scope for further review. The impact of GASB 87 n
reflected in the System’s financial statements beginning in 2020.
The Financial Planning and Analysis (FPA) and Finance Teams have completed the development of th
annual budget. The budget is being presented to the Board in October for approval.
Enrollment on Wheels RV participated in 24 events in September, servicing 252 community membe
provided are scheduling of medical clinic appointments, insurance education, and assistance with fi
eligibility. There were 12 events on the West Side and 12 on the East Side.
From January to September 2019, within the RV, 2,184 services were rendered to our community, se
members.

Internal Audit
 Internal Audit, along with Ethics and Compliance, will be facilitating workshops with MetroHealth lea
develop and prioritize the 2020 Internal Audit plan. The plan will be presented to the Audit and Com
Committee of the Board of Trustees in December.
 Internal Audit collaborated with Information Systems and Finance to streamline and automate the p
ensuring user access to Epic and Infor is correct. Access reviews help MetroHealth protect its’ inform
by ensuring user access is appropriate based on users’ job responsibilities.

Enterprise Data Analytics
 In collaboration with operational leaders, the Department of Research and Analytics (DORA) team ha
and deployed multiple analytic tools to support efficient staffing. The team will continue evolving th
better inform operational decisions.
 The Department of Research and Analytics commenced a lunch and learn series to teach MetroHeal
members about analytics. The initial session focused on advanced analytics was held on Septembe

Information Systems (IS)
 MetroHealth received CHIME (College of Healthcare Information Management Executives) Healthcar
Most Wired recognition. This is the 6th year in a row that MetroHealth has been awarded Healthcare
Wired. The selection is based upon deployed technologies and strategies used to help analyze data
achievement of meaningful clinical and efficiency outcomes.
 Information Services has created a dynamic organizational chart that gives instant, accurate, up-toinformation about MetroHealth employees and the supervisors to whom they report. The entire work
Page 4 of 11

 use the tool to quickly view anyone within the organization, learn about their role, see where they fi
organization, and obtain current contact information.

Enterprise Program Management Office
 Twenty MetroHealth professionals have been selected by senior executives to be trained in the Lean
process improvement methodology. The two-month program, conducted in partnership with Cuyaho
Community College, will provide tools to help identify and implement streamlined, efficient, and effe
principles and practices that lead to continuous improvement of operations and outcomes.
 To improve medication administration at the County Jail, MetroHealth is implementing Electronic Me
Administration Record (eMAR). eMAR electronically documents medications administered to the pat
reducing the time nursing staff spends administering medications, the risk of transcription errors, an
of paper record scanning.

Supply Chain
 MetroHealth continues to partner with Standvast and Zitra to transform the System’s supply chain in
strategic advantage. The end-to-end redesign of supply chain will establish processes, workflows, a
that leverage the best in class tools to ensure our patients and employees receive the right items at
place and time.
 The supply chain contract specialists are leveraging new analytic sources to review contracts and pr
opportunities for the system. Advanced knowledge of pricing allows MetroHealth to drive greater va
purchasing.
System Dyad


Dr. Bernard Boulanger and Michael Dalton co-chaired the Care Innovation and Community Improvem
Program (CICIP) Executive Committee meeting with ODM in Columbus.

Inpatient Operations



Throughput initiatives are continuing and have supported improvements to length of stay by 4 perce
Patient Experience scores at all inpatient locations trend favorably with “recommend hospital" incre
points compared to prior year based on targeted initiatives and new programs in collaboration with
Patient Experience.

Emergency Preparedness
 A table top exercise was conducted with MetroHealth clinical and support stakeholders with a scena
a simulated and significant impact to the Critical Care Pavilion. Discussions focused on the safe mo
intensive care unit (ICU) patients, visitors, and staff following newly revised evacuation routes due t
construction of our new hospital.
 The Emergency Management Team attended Cuyahoga County’s third annual Emergency Managem
that included speakers debriefing the most recent Florida high-school shooting, updates from Ohio’s
Management Agency, impacts of climate change to our region, and behavioral health impacts to fro
responders.
 Thirty-Two MetroHealth inpatient and ambulatory network personnel participated in a MedSled® Tra
Trainer session, an evacuation device that enables staff to safely transport non-ambulatory patients
stairwell if ever needed. These participants are charged with training additional MetroHealth person
respective areas. The MedSled® is used by all local and regional hospitals in the event mutual aid a
is requested.

Environmental Services, Logistics, and Textile Care
 Logistics has expanded outreach of the MetroHealth Vans with new transportation options for patien
Broadway and Parma Health Centers.
Page 5 of 11

 

Environmental Services is improving its processes through customer service initiatives including sta
higher-level hospitality approaches and structured assistance in wayfinding for visitors, rounding wit
department leaders, and training all supervisors in HazWhoper to enable them to be on the HazMat
Team.

Food & Nutrition Services
 Food Services successfully executed a week of employee appreciation events for 5,000 employees a
healthcare system. Events included food trucks, pizza parties, ice cream treats, music, and giveawa
Campus attendees also enjoyed a visit by special guests from the Cleveland Indians—mascots Slide
Ketchup, and Onion.

Pharmacy
 CareSource added MetroHealth Specialty Pharmacy into the Synagis® Injection Program as a prefer
for the second year in a row. This is an outreach program that the MetroHealth Specialty Pharmacy,
Intensive Care Unit, and homecare nurses together work to provide Synagis® to premature born inf
and young children. This drug is used to prevent serious lung infections that are caused by a partic
called RSV (Respiratory Syncytial Virus).
 A new pharmacy vancomycin-dosing consult service was implemented August 27, 2019. Vancomyc
critically important antibiotic for our sickest patients. It can be a challenge to maintain this medicat
therapeutic ranges as each patient may require custom administration frequency and dosage amou
pharmacists began providing this vancomycin dosing service, we have had a 25 percent improveme
number of patients who are within goal range for this antibiotic.

Radiology
 Broadway’s mammography section achieved ACR (American College of Radiology) accreditation.
 Radiology’s computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) continue to surpass
MR volumes 8.2 percent favorable and CT 3.5 percent favorable.
 The new Mobile Mammography program continued its growth and contributed to the increase in tota
mammography volumes for September which was 3.2 percent favorable for the month.

Patient Access
 NSC achieved ‘same day’ campaigns where all scheduling requests and referral outreach are being
the NSC on the same day it was received from the departments. In September 2019, 2,864 patients
notified by through this campaign on behalf of Primary Care, Rheumatology, Hand & Upper Extremit
Eye, Dermatology and Gastroenterology.
 The NSC worked with Ambulatory Network leadership to help contact patients who missed their
appointment. Effective August 5, 2019, the NSC campaigned all no-shows within a five-day window
appointment to attempt to reschedule the patient. Currently, the NSC is receiving more than 700 ca
from patients who have failed to show-up for an appointment as a result of the No-Show campaigns
 Gastroenterology referrals conversion to appointments have increased by 10 percent per month sin
June 2019’s implementation of MyMetro and assisted by NSC campaigns. Rheumatology Arthritis se
requests or referrals have steady conversion rate to appointments average YTD 75.3 percent.
Service Lines

Adult Health and Wellness
Primary Care:
 Three new MD’s and one APRN joined our system.
 Collaborated with the Cancer Care Center to embed Primary Care into their Service Line.
 Award received from the Chinese Consolidated Benevolent Society to recognize MetroHealth for its c
support to the Asia Plaza Community.
Page 6 of 11

 Behavioral Health:
 Fourteen clinicians in the Division of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry & Psychology held a staff retreat
expanding services to the community. Areas included program development, expansion and improv
innovative and high-quality care.
 Adult Psychiatry welcomed two new Clinicians to our comprehensive Behavioral Health team.
School Health Program:
 Launched clinic days at new sites: Cleveland Heights High School, PEP Eastwood, and PEP Phoenix.
 WVIZ Ideastream - visited School Health Program to film a documentary on School Based Health Car
Ohio. The documentary will air in December 2019.
 Katie Davis presented with School Based Health Care partners from Cincinnati on "Community Enga
Improve Health, Attendance, and Student Academic Outcomes" at the American School Health Asso
Conference.
 SAFE (Students Are Free to Express) completed its first residency with a showcase at Lincoln West G
Studies. SAFE also started residencies at John Adams High School and Harvey Rice.

Cancer Care
 MHCC held its 4th Annual Cancer Symposium in September 2019, chaired by Dr. Ashley Skehon, our
oncologist. The program centered on a timely review of topics related to radiation therapy in the tre
solid organ cancers by regional experts.
 MHCC community outreach received $20,000 in extramural funding from Arconic, Cleveland, to prov
screening and education services to the Cleveland at-risk community.
 MHCC nurse, Clare Roche, will be presented with the Daisy Award on 10/18/19 and Lisa Vibbert RN w
representing MHS as Ohio Nurse of The Year March of Dimes Finalist nomination.

Emergency Services
 Jessica Feichtner, Nurse Manager and SANE Certified Nurse, and Jennifer Beigie, SANE Coordinator,
by the International Association of Forensic Nurses (IAFN) to present a poster and lecture on Human
in New Orleans.
 The Metro Life Program welcomed Gene McCutcheon, Chief Flight Nurse/Nurse Manager. Gene joins
Cedars Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles, California and is certified in Emergency and Flight Nursing.
 The Event Medicine Team, established in the Emergency Department, managed first aid medical ten
Emergency Medicine staff and a new program, Bicycle Medicine, for 14 events during the summer.
events were multiple day events such as the All-Star Game festivities and the Cleveland National Ai
 MetroHealth’s Main Campus Emergency Department has seen an improvement in their patient expe
scores after collaborating with the Office of Patient Experience to initiate a very robust patient expe
improvement project.

Neuro-Musculoskeletal
PM&R:
 John Chae, MD, VP for Research and Sponsored Programs and Chair of the department of Physical M
Rehabilitation (PM&R), is co-editor of DeLisa’s Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation: Principles and P
1,760-page volume presents the most comprehensive review of the state of the art, evidence-based
recommendations for physicatric management of disorders affecting the brain, spinal cord, nerves,
ligaments, muscles and tendons. Other PM&R faculty at the MetroHealth System contributing to the
include Jayme Knutson, PhD, Director of Research and Associate Professor of PM&R and Richard Wils
Director of Division of Neurological Rehabilitation and Associate Professor of PM&R.
 P. Hunter Peckham, PhD, elected Fellow of the International Academy of Medical and Biological Engin
Orthopedics:
 The Department of Orthopaedic Surgery and its Clinical Research Center were well represented at th
Orthopedic Trauma Association Annual Meeting (OTA) in Denver Colorado. The Orthopedics Departm
podium presentations (3 were multicenter projects we were part of) and 7 posters (2 were multicent
Page 7 of 11

 were all high-quality research projects that were well received by the audience. I am confident that
will go on to be published in significant peer reviewed journals.

Academic Achievements:
Dr Michael Kelly
 JAMA Neurology accepted our paper on the ethics and health policy of clinical trials in neural device
co-author along with several others across the country based on an NIH workshop.
 The paper (ML Kelly, J He, MJ Roach, T Moore, M Steinmetz, J Claridge) “Regionalization of Spine Trau
an Urban Trauma System in the United States: Decreased Time to Surgery and Hospital Length of St
published in Neurosurgery in the December 2019 print issue and was just announced as the CNS Sp
for that issue.
 Dr Kelly was just invited to be a scientific reviewer for the Congressionally Directed Medical Researc
(CDMRP) and the Department of Defense’s Spinal Cord Injury Research Program (SCIRP) for the 201
cycle.
 Presented Grand Rounds to the Cleveland Clinic Department of Neurosurgery on Wednesday Octobe
the future of outcomes research in patients with traumatic neurological injuries.
 Dr Kelly received a secondary appointment as Assistant Professor, Department of Bioethics, Case W
Reserve University.
Dr Ben Roitberg
 Served as faculty at the World Federation of Neurosurgical Societies Special Congress in Beijing, Sep
Lecture Topics: Laminoplasty without hardware; Consensus panel presentation about lumbar instrum
Dr. Roitberg also served as moderator.
 Accepted: Review and position paper on the use of opioids in patients who have spine operations. W
Committee Newsletter.
 Just invited as faculty to the WFNS Spine Committee meeting in Milan, June 2020.
Dr Agnieszka Ardelt
 New quality improvement and education program at Metro: NIHSS training video for nurses who tak
stroke patients.

Specialty Care
 Specialty care would like to welcome the newest Interventional Cardiologist to the MetroHealth team
Siraj.
 MetroHealth has opened its first eastside location for studies in Cuyahoga County. We have begun o
the A Loft hotel in Beachwood.
 MetroHealth Infectious Disease has designed and launched a social media App called Positive Peers
young people living with HIV. Dr. Ann Avery and her team have been working to develop the app ove
several years and have recently launched for widespread use. The goal of the app is build communi
support and connect patients to resources in living with HIV.
Surgery
 Record OR volumes for the month of September.
 Successful cost reduction strategies through OR Value Analysis Committee.
 Increased capacity to manage Bariatric and Metabolic Surgery with marketing enhancements.

Women and Children’s
 Pediatric cardiology, nephrology and urology services are expanding on the MetroHealth main camp
 Dr. Jennifer Bailit was named as a PI for the Eunice Shriver NICHD Maternal-Fetal-Network research u
 Dr. Susan Carlin was appointed division director of general pediatrics.
 Dr. Phil Fragassi was appointed associate division director of general pediatrics.
 Cleveland Police Foundation presented child life with an award for being the Community Partner of t

Page 8 of 11

 Ambulatory Operations
 State Road Family Practice completed a clothing and toy drive for the Main Campus Pediatric Depart
 Medical Specialties clinic is now infusing patients at Parma satellite on Mondays, Wednesdays, and F
is in response to decanting infusions from main campus and moving patients out to satellite location
Launch of Hello Patient
 A new MyChart feature allowing patients to fully complete check-in without having to go to the front
Live was Oct 10, 2019, at Westlake Crocker Park only – pilot site.
American Heart Walk
 MH West Ambulatory Network HEARTTHROBS – Beating for a Purpose placed 2nd in fundraising effor
Parma.
 Crocker Park and Middleburg Hts. managers joined efforts to create a larger “West Side” team, cons
employees from Middleburg Hts., Brunswick, Westlake Crocker Park and Rocky River.
 The team collectively raised $1,436.50 and surpassed our goal of $1000.00.
Office of Patient Experience

Patient Experience System Goal – Likelihood to Recommend – Stretch Performance Achieved, Augus

Arts in Health
 Arts in Medicine concluded their 2018-19 Victims of Crime Act grant art therapy programming. A to
client contacts were realized in 316 individual and group sessions. Art therapists provided evidenceinformed sessions throughout the community. Community partners included four CMSD Schools, LG
Greater Cleveland, Malachi Center, YWCA of Greater Cleveland, Norma Herr, Recovery Resources, Re
Empowerment Center and MetroHealth’s own Compass Services. Culminating art shows were held
and LGBT Center. The LGBT Center show, UNFRAMED, opened on September 27, 2019, and runs th
October 2019. The exhibit features the participants’ artwork and explores themes of personal ident
acceptance.

Mental Health First Aid (MHFA) Instructor Certification
 MHFA provides a framework to identify potential risk factors and warning signs for a range of menta
problems including: depression, anxiety/trauma, psychosis, substance use disorders and self-injury.
offers evidence-based professional, peer, social and self-help resources available to help someone w
health problem. The Office of Patient Experience, Trauma Recovery Center and the Employee Assista
departments partnered to offer Mental Health First Aid (MHFA) Instructor Certification. The MHFA pr
made possible by a grant received through the Trauma Recovery Center for the express purpose of s
most frontline staff with tangible skills in addressing the complexities of our patient populations acro
spectrum of our services/system. Seventeen MetroHealth employees from the host departments as
MHPD, Human Resources and the Institute for H.O.P.E became MHFA certified instructors. In the upc
months and into 2020, MHFA training will be available to providers and staff.

Patient-Centered Care
 The Beryl Institute PX Weekly published a case study featuring MetroHealth, “Welcome.Listen.Care.”
the Patient and Employee Experience in the CICU through Three Service Acts that Enhance Personal
Communication, and Real-time Responsiveness. This case study is part of a series of case studies fr
performing organizations in conjunction with the paper, To Care is Human. To Care is Human brings
factors influencing patient experience. The study featured Jennifer Ball, Nurse Manager, CICU and Je
Manager, Patient-Centered Care.

Spiritual Care
 National Spiritual Care Week will be celebrated October 21 – 25 at Main Campus. The System’s Mem
will take place on Sunday, November 3, in remembrance of those we have been privileged to serve.
Page 9 of 11

 Chaplain Sandie King will begin certification training in Guided Visualization to offer more specialize
patients.

Volunteer Services
 Twenty-three individuals were trained for the No One Dies Alone (NODA) volunteer program on
September 28, 2019, bringing the total number of NODA volunteers to 29. NODA volunteers provide
presence at the bedside of dying patients who otherwise would be alone at the end of life. Clinicians
NODA volunteers via the Nursing Business Office.
Ethics and Compliance






MHS Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer presented at a national compliance conference the MHS co
analysis on compliance program effectiveness “Levering Industry Guidance to Measure Effectivenes
MHS privacy team presented “HIPAA and Law Enforcement Requests for Protected Health Informatio
Cleveland-area prosecutors.
Facilitated human trafficking “Lunch and Learn” on September 13, 2019, with subject matter expert
Department of Justice and MetroHealth sexual assault nurse examiners.
Participated in Ohio Hospital Association 340B Roundtable in Columbus.
Conducted training for newly formed Research Conflicts of Interest Committee.

Nursing







Magnet: The document for our fourth Magnet designation was submitted on October 1, 2019, and
four appraisers was assigned. Feedback should be received during first quarter 2020.
Nursing Conference: The annual nursing conference will be held on November 15, 2019. Topics incl
issues and boundaries in caring for incarcerated patients, human trafficking, workplace incivility and
violence, and fostering a healthy work environment. The conference is free for MetroHealth RNs and
continuing education. The conference is planned by staff nurses who participate in the CARE Progra
professional development program) in the Education Coordinator role.
Nurse Senate Donation: The MetroHealth Nurse Senate is donating a statue, The Healer’s Touch, for
hospital. The statue stands approximately 3 feet tall and symbolizes the relationship between nurse
and families. The Healer’s Touch statue, in a smaller version, is given each month to our Daisy Awar
Daisy winners are nominated by their co-workers, patients, or families and a winner is selected by N
This is a great way to honor the extraordinary work our nurses do!
More information on the Daisy Award and The Healer’s Touch can be found at:
https://www.daisyfoundation.org/about

Page 10 of 11

 Foundation and System Philanthropy









As we continue to strengthen the relationships we have with the Elizabeth Severance Prentiss Found
the George S. Codrington Foundation, both generous supporters of MetroHealth, we hope that a few
members might help us engage these two organizations. If you have a connection to Craig Martahus
and John Baco (Prentiss), please contact Kathy Plummer at kplummer@metrohealth.org or 440-592would love your input and energy to help us elevate our conversations with them.
The P. Hunter Peckham, PhD and George J. Picha, MD PhD Endowment in Biomedical Engineering ha
established at MetroHealth, in collaboration with Case Western Reserve University (CWRU). The end
support education and research activities in the field of orthopedics, specifically functional electrica
Dr. Peckham is Co-Director of the MetroHealth Rehabilitation Institute of Ohio, Professor of Biomedic
Engineering and Orthopedics at CWRU, and is a member of the bio-scientific staff at MetroHealth. A
gift from Dr. Picha completed fundraising for the endowment. A practicing plastic surgeon who train
MetroHealth early in his career, Dr. Picha received both his medical degree and a doctorate in
biomedical/biomaterials engineering from CWRU. He is founder, president and CEO of the Brecksvill
medical device company Applied Medical Technology, Inc.
The Swagelok Foundation has given $10,000 to the Building for the Future Fund. A special thank you
Foundation Board Member Joey Arnold for helping to facilitate this gift.
MetroHealth has submitted a request for $250,000 to the David and Jacquie Clark Family Fund to su
“unique sensory room” on the inpatient pediatrics floor of the new hospital. The floor will be access
patients with sensory issues, including individuals with autism. We are working to schedule a first-t
MetroHealth for the family.
On October 8, 2019, MetroHealth hosted Jennifer Coleman, Senior Program Officer for Arts at the Ge
Foundation, for a Transformation briefing. Walter Jones, SVP Campus Transformation; Kevin Ortner, D
Transformation Operations; Kathy Plummer, Director of Foundation Giving and I had the opportunity
the new hospital and campus redesign as well as our efforts to engage the Clark-Fulton community
planning for the green space. Marcia Egbert, Senior Program Officer for Human Services at the Gund
will join us on November 1, 2019, for a similar briefing.

Page 11 of 11

 