ALCOHOL, DRUG ADDICTION & MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES BOARD OF CUYAHOGA COUNTY
COMMUNITY RELATIONS & ADVOCACY (CR&A) COMMITTEE
SEPTEMBER 4, 2019
Committee Members Present: Harvey A. Snider, Esq., Katie Kern-Pilch, ATR-BC, LPC-S, Sharon Rosenbaum, MBA
Absent: Reginald C. Blue, Ph.D., Gregory X. Boehm, M.D., Erskine Cade, MBA, Elsie Caraballo,
Eugenia Kirkland, LSW, MSSA, CDCA,
Board Staff Present: Scott Osiecki, C.E.O., Carole Ballard, Christina Bohuslawsky-Brown, Felicia Harrison, Bill Hebble,
Linda Lamp, Jacob Rosebrock, Madison Scagnetti, Larry Smith, Beth Zietlow-DeJesus
Call to Order: Harvey Snider, Committee Chair, called the meeting to order at 4:00 p.m.
1. Approval of Minutes
The Community Relations & Advocacy Committee minutes from the 7/10/19 meeting were approved as submitted.
2. Legislative Update
Meet our Legislator Series: On Monday, September 23rd, Representative Dave Greenspan, Ohio District 16, will be
coming to the ADAMHS Board to meet with clients, family members, staff, providers and other community members for
the Meet Your Legislators Series. Ms. Beth Zietlow-DeJesus, Director of External Affairs, noted that due to advocacy
efforts by the ADAMHS Board, Mr. Scott Osiecki and staff, Representative Greenspan has changed his platform regarding
funding for mental health, addiction treatment and recovery services.
Legislative Updates: Ms. Zietlow-DeJesus highlighted several legislative bills itemized by the Ohio Association of
Behavioral Health Authorities (OACBHA) together with a brief description and link to the text/analysis. The document is
attached to the original minutes stored in the Executive Unit.
Mr. Snider inquired as to whether OACBHA maintains a position relative to pending legislation. Ms. Zietlow-DeJesus
noted that OACBHA has not taken a formal position on pending legislation due to the evolving nature of this matter;
however, when they take a formal stance on pending legislation, committee members will be updated.
Ms. Kern-Pilch noted that three pending bills; SB 55 Drug Trafficking, SB 58 Nonviolent Crimes, and SB 156 Screening
Tests, were introduced by State Senator Gavarone. Ms. Zietlow-DeJesus stated that Theresa Gavarone is the State
Senator for the 2nd District of the Ohio Senate and was first appointed to the Senate in 2019 after serving in the Ohio
House of Representatives since 2016.
Mr. Osiecki indicated that over the last several years there has been an increase in individuals interested in legislation
for mental health. Prior to this timeframe, there was not as much interest in legislation for mental health; however, there
has always been some activity. Pending legislation for Calendar Year 2019 is very similar to the number introduced in
Calendar Year 2018; conversely, 2 years ago, a significant amount of legislation was promulgated into law.
3. Sponsorships
Ms. Zietlow-DeJesus highlighted the five Sponsorships recommended by Board staff to the CR&A Committee and
referenced the details provided in the individual agenda process sheets for:
▪

Greater Cleveland Drug Court, Inc. Awards Luncheon Contributing Sponsor (Friday, September 20, 2019, Holiday
Inn-Independence) - $500.00

▪

Every Brilliant Thing, (Performance runs November – December, 2019, Cleveland Playhouse) - $1,250.00
▪

Ms. Carole Ballard, Director of Education and Training, stated that as part of the ADAMHS Board’s
QPR-A-Thon (Question, Persuade and Refer) for the month of September, Cleveland Playhouse
Page 1 of 4

 Community Relations & Advocacy Committee Minutes

September 4, 2019

reached out to the Board in relation to this particular performance, to request two trainings; one for a
general staff training on suicide prevention and the other for the actors.
▪

Greater Cleveland Urban Film Festival sponsorship of A Tale of Two Mothers, (September 12-20, 2019,) $1,500.00

▪

Mental Health & Addiction Advocacy Coalition (MHAC) Public Officials Breakfast Bronze Sponsorship (Friday,
October 11, 2019, Nuevo Restaurant) - $1,000.00

▪

Annual Grief Symposium Table Sponsor (Friday, October 4, 2019, Cuyahoga Valley Church) - $250.00

Motion to approve the sponsorships (listed above) to the Finance & Operations Committee.
MOTION: K. Kern-Pilch / SECOND: S. Rosenbaum / AYES: K. Kern-Pilch, S. Rosenbaum, H. Snider
NAYS: None / Motion passed.
4. Online Mental Health Screening Renewal
MindWise Innovations (formerly Screening for Mental Health, Inc.) provides large-scale mental health screening for the
public, innovative mental health and substance abuse resources, and links individuals in need with treatment options.
The ADAMHS Board of Cuyahoga County’s programs, offered online and in-person, educate, raise awareness, and
screen individuals for common mental and behavioral health disorders, and suicide. The screenings are offered in
Spanish and English. Ms. Zietlow-DeJesus noted that the ADAMHS Board has been utilizing the online screenings since
2014. In Calendar Year 2018 1,447 people completed online screenings. The top screenings taken were: 656 for
depression, 352 for generalized anxiety, 137 for bipolar, 84 for disordered eating, 105 for PTSD, 34 for adolescent
depression and 79 for alcohol and substance use.
Motion to approve the cost of renewing the online mental health screening in the amount of $1,000.00 to the
Finance & Operations Committee. MOTION: S. Rosenbaum / SECOND: H. Snider / AYES: K. Kern-Pilch, S.
Rosenbaum, H. Snider NAYS: None / Motion passed.
5. Roads To Recovery Conference Update
Ms. Carole Ballard, Director of Education & Training, reported that the 2019 Roads to Recovery Conference is scheduled
for Monday, October 21, 2019, at the Cleveland Airport Marriot Hotel on West 150th Street. The number of enrollments
is steadily increasing and is presently at 150 individuals. Board staff has been busy completing the conference brochure
and formalizing volunteers for various positions; such as room moderators and registration. Currently, most of the
material has been collected from presenters to assist with finalizing binding. Ms. Ballard noted that 7.5 Continuing
Education Units (CEUs) will be provided to attendees at conference closure.
Ms. Ballard highlighted that one of the committees that the ADAMHS Board is involved in, the Workforce Development
Committee related to Early Mental Health Child, is changing their scheduled meeting date to accommodate for member
requests to attend the Roads to Recovery Conference.
Ms. Madison Scagnetti, External Affairs Officer, will be facilitating a process for interested client attendance at a cost of
$10.00 per registration. Ms. Zietlow-DeJesus noted that correspondence was also forwarded to the Board of Directors
regarding instructions for attendance at this conference; and that approximately 20 organizations have requested to cosponsor.
Committee Input:
- Mr. Snider shared his concern regarding client participation at the 2019 Roads to Recovery Conference. He noted that
transportation issues may be avoided by provider agencies utilization of transportation services for this conference.
- Ms. Kern-Pilch provided accolades to Board staff regarding efforts in providing opportunities for individuals to obtain
CEUs. Utilization of CE Broker offers participants with a convenient manner to obtain personal information relevant to
training participation for individual licensure renewal.

Page 2 of 4

 Community Relations & Advocacy Committee Minutes

September 4, 2019

6. ACEs Public Awareness Campaign
In collaboration with the Cuyahoga County Board of Health and OhioGuidestone, the Board has been involved in a
partnership pilot project called ACEs (Adverse Childhood Experiences) Pilot Project. The Board’s task has been centered
on the education arm about the impact of opiate addition on families for several designated communities. The Health
Department chose the areas of Berea and Olmsted Township/Olmsted Falls. In the 1st year of this 2-year funding
initiative, the Board has provided training to law enforcement on ACEs. To date, 2 trainings have been delivered to Berea
Police Department and 2 more to Olmsted Township and 1 to Olmsted Falls Police Department. The training is to help
police officers become aware of adverse childhood experiences.
Mr. Jacob Rosebrock, Community Relations & Engagement Specialist, highlighted that this campaign is part of a
$12,500.00 grant allocation that was given to the ADAMHS Board by the Cuyahoga County Board of Health; which is
from a Center for Disease Control (CDC) grant regarding ACEs and the Opioid crisis. He noted that adverse childhood
experiences are events that may have a negative impact on a person’s lifelong health and prosperity and that this public
awareness plan is designed to show local community members that reside and work in the pilot program area the impact
of opiate addition on families.
7. Suicide Prevention Month Activities Update
Boards across the state will be facilitating several QPR trainings during Suicide Prevention Awareness Month. Ms.
Ballard noted that the ADAMHS Board will be offering a concentrated week (September 9-16, 2019) of QPR Training to
the community. She noted that Cuyahoga County is the only Northeast Ohio community that said yes to this initiative.
Board staff will advertise QPR events, go out into the community for trainings and keep track of the number of individuals
trained. Additionally, the ADAMHS Board has added an evening session of QPR training from 4:00-6:00 p.m. on a
quarterly basis.
Ms. Ballard noted that when this campaign was launched in the community, the ADAMHS Board obtained 22 contacts
and sessions scheduled and confirmed for September. These sessions are anticipated to reach 447 individuals through
8 trainers. The organizations that have contacted the ADAMHS Board include Oriana House, YMCA, the County Board
of Health and Human Services, Intercontinental Hotel, Sobriety in Motion, Cleveland Clinic, Women’s Recovery Center,
Cleveland Metropolitan School District, Applewood, Northern Ohio Recovery Association (NORA) as well as several
churches.
Ms. Zietlow-DeJesus explained that The Suicide Prevention Coalition, in preparing for its Suicide Prevention Awareness
Month Campaign, had an excellent opportunity to work with The Wave, 107.3 and the ADAMHS Board to promote
prevention through a Charity Spotlight campaign. The campaign will raise funds and awareness for suicide prevention
efforts in Cuyahoga County.
Ms. Scagnetti noted that Ms. Katie Ussin, WEWS News Anchor, inquired with her regarding a special on suicide
prevention that was focused on loneliness within generation C and requested a referral; which was Josh Ruminski. Mr.
Ruminski convinced Ms. Ussin to complete a whole series for Suicide Prevention Month. As a result, she reached out to
the ADAMHS Board again to obtain five 30-40 second videos from survivors or family members of survivors to indicate
that hope is available. These videos will be aired on Channel 5 throughout September.
8. Census Hard To Reach Communities Committee
Mr. Osiecki, who was requested to participate as Co-chair of the Census Hard to Reach Communities Committee,
assigned ADAMHS staff to present a plan to Board members in an effort to reach out to individuals with mental health
and/or addiction issues; which is called Census 2020 Hard to Count Communities. Participants from the ADAMHS Board
include Mr. Bill Hebble, Clients Rights Officer II; Ms. Christina Bohuslawsky-Brown, Clients Rights Officer II; Ms. Vicki
Roemer, Administrative Assistant II; Ms. Zietlow-DeJesus and Ms. Scagnetti. Ms. Scagnetti highlighted the Outreach
Plan by noting that the objective of the plan is to make providers, clients and staff aware of the Census. This objective
will be accomplished through efforts to identify what the Census is and why it’s important, when/how to fill it out and how
to stay safe from scams. The Timeline for these efforts is August, 2019-April, 2020.

Page 3 of 4

 Community Relations & Advocacy Committee Minutes

September 4, 2019

Committee Input:
- Mr. Snider shared his concern regarding the importance of emphasizing the need for group home owners, operators
and managers to cooperate by assisting clients with this process.
- Ms. Rosenbaum inquired as to the establishment of a targeted number or percentage of individuals to reach in order
to create a benchmark for future census efforts.
9. Social Media and Media Tracking Reports
▪ Tracking Reports - Ms. Scagnetti provided committee members with an overview of the social media statistics since
the last Community Relations & Advocacy Committee meeting. We have added 86 new followers with total of 3,553
fans now on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. Total impressions for the time period (7/10/19 through 9/03/19) were
seen 534,897 times.
▪ The Social Media/Press Clipping Report from 5/01/19 through 7/09/19 indicated that the ADAMHS Board had a total
of 259 media mentions; 246 were positive, 13 neutral and 0 negative.

Ms. Zietlow-DeJesus provided an update regarding OhioMHAS Director Criss’s visit and tour of Stella Maris
and St. Vincent Medical Center with media, which transpired on Friday, August 30, 2019; a Wall Street Journal
interview; and Sarah Buduson’s crisis services story, which covers statewide crisis services, its deficits, gaps
in treatment and funding needs. This story will run during October Sweeps Week.
10. Old/New Business
-

Mr. Osiecki noted that Rev. Gohlstin and he recently met with Cuyahoga County Councilman Dale Miller,
Finance Committee Chair, to discuss a variety of agenda items, including the State budget. He also noted that
on another occasion, he met with Cuyahoga County Councilwoman Cheryl Stephens to discuss similar agenda
items. Mr. Osiecki stated that additional individual meetings have been scheduled with various Council members
throughout September.

-

Mr. Osiecki referenced a scheduled meeting with Mr. Bill Mason, Cuyahoga County Executive Armond Budish's
Chief of Staff, on October 24, 2019.

-

Ms. Zietlow-DeJesus noted that the ADAMHS Board will be hosting the Mental Health Court Docket art show
again this year. Further information regarding this event will be forthcoming.

There being no further business, the meeting adjourned at 5:03 p.m.
Submitted by:

Linda Lamp, Executive Assistant

Approved by:

Harvey A. Snider, Esq., Community Relations & Advocacy Committee Chair

Page 4 of 4

 