 DRAFT 6-3-2019

GATEWAY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION OF GREATER CLEVELAND

Minutes of a Meeting of the
Board of Trustees

Held on May 29, 2019
12:00 o'clock p.m.

Of?ces of
Climaco, Wilcox, Peea Garofoli Co., L.P.A.
55 Public Square, Suite 1950
Cleveland, Ohio

There being a quorum present, Mr. Silliman called the meeting to order at approximately 12:05
p.m. Board members Ken Silliman, Matt Carroll, Davida Russell and David Ebersole were
present. Also present were Todd Greathouse, Brian Kelly, and Daniella Nunnally of Gateway, as
well as Dennis Wilcox and Scott Simpkins as Gateway?s General Counsel. Also present was
Gateway?s Engineering Consultant David Faller. Present from Stifel Nicolaus on behalf of
Cuyahoga County was Robert Franz. Present from the Indians was Neil Weiss. Present from the
media was Courtney Astol? of c1eveland.com and Nick Castele of Ideastream. Present from the
public was William Tarter and Lincoln Luzar.

Mr. Silliman, as Chairman, opened the meeting and asked for approval of the Minutes of the
February 13, 2019 meeting. Upon motion made by Mr. Carroll, and seconded by Mr. Ebersole,
the Minutes were unanimously approved 4-0.

Next, Mr. Silliman asked if there was any public comment. Mr. Tartar expressed his
appreciation that that the Board meeting agendas and minutes are posted on Gateway?s website,
but noted that the February 2017 meeting minutes were not included. Mr. Tartar also asked
about the protocol and procedure for major capital repair requests and whether if, in the future
there is a request by one of the teams and insuf?cient funds to accommodate the request, if that
could be deemed a breach of the team?s lease agreement. Mr. Wilcox addressed the questions
explaining the lease relationships between Gateway and the teams and describing the protocol
agreed to by the teams and Gateway for any major capital repair requests. As for the issue of
whether a breach could arise in the future, Mr. Wilcox noted that he was not going to get into
addressing hypothetical scenarios but did note that there is no de?nitive set time for response to
major capital repair requests. Hearing no further public comments, Mr. Silliman then proceeded
to the Executive Director?s report.

Mr. Greathouse reported on Arena Major Capital Repair requests. With regard to the HVAC
project for the Arena, Mr. Greathouse noted that the main hub has been upgraded with the
installation of air?handling forty-?ve percent complete and the supply exhaust fans seventy
percent complete. The building automation system will provide real time feedback and the

project is currently under its $28 million budget by approximately $800 thousand. With regard
to the $3.375 million ADA restroom renovations, they have been renovating 5 restrooms at a
time attending to speci?cs such as stall dimensions, railings and ?ooring, and the Cavaliers have
been working with the County accessibility representative. Mr. Greathouse then addressed the
$3.873 million ice ?oor and chiller plant project. He noted that the schedule had been pushed
behind somewhat due to the Monster?s playoff run but that design work has begun and that the
ice ?oor itself is in good condition. They intend on getting RFPs issued in June and award the
project to the successful bidder towards the end of 2019.

Ms. Nunnally then provided an update on the Arena Transformation Project and the inclusion
reports contained in the Board materials. Ms. Nunnally ?rst addressed the current status of the
various areas of the project including that on the north expansion where the slabs, ramps and
stairs are being poured, three elevators are prepared to be installed, and the roof and curtain wall
are going up. On the south hardscape, they are working on the drainage under the new bollards,
grade elevations, and waterproo?ng the garage. Ms. Nunnally also referred the Board to the
photos in the Board materials showing the northeast corner bollard installation and the new
exterior signage installation.

Ms. Nunnally then addressed the diversity and inclusion summary reports in the Board materials
and stated that so far almost 70 percent of the total $72,941,038 contracted to date for the
Transformation tax has been spent on MBE, FBE and SBE ?rms. Breaking this down, the
?gures for MBE are 21 percent, BB is at 34 percent, and SBE is at 58 percent (noting that some
?rms are in more than one category). Ms. Nunnally then referred the Board to the MBE
Contracting Breakdown in the Board materials which breaks down the MBE participation
between African-American, Hispanic, and Other Minority percentage participation. Ms.
Nunnally also noted that the workforce participation results are all above the stated goals with
minority at 23.6%, female at Cuyahoga County residents at 52%, City of Cleveland
residents at 24%, and low income participation at Ms. Nunnally also indicated that she and
Dr. Melissa Burrows have spoken regarding the new workforce participation changes to be
implemented.

Mr. Greathouse then provided an update on the $4.227 million escalator major capital project at
the Ballpark. Schindler has been selected as the escalator contractor and Gateway and the
Indians, with the assistance of Osborne, have submitted the shop drawings for fabrication. The
units are currently in production and installation will begin at the conclusion of the baseball
season.

Next, the ?nancial reports were given by Mr. Kelly. He ?rst reviewed the operating account for
the month ended April 30, 2019 and reported a cash beginning balance of $418,758, total
receipts of $289,602, and total disbursements of $381,757 for a month-end balance of $326,603.
He then reviewed the Ballpark Capital account for April which had a beginning balance of
$5,122, receipts of $208,761, and capital disbursements of $207,483 for an ending balance of
$6,400.

Mr. Kelly then reviewed the projections from May 1St through July 31, 2019. First, the May 1,
2019 account balance is $326,603, anticipated revenues are $1,676,828, for estimated money

before disbursements of $2,003,431. Operating disbursements are anticipated to be $1,827,178,
for an estimated balance by July 31 of $176,254. On the same summary sheet, Mr. Kelley then
addressed the property tax and business improvement district summary identifying total 2"d half
taxes/BID of $81 1,329, composed on $542,118 for the Indians and $269,211 for the Cavaliers.

Mr. Kelly then provided a Rocket Mortgage Fieldhouse major capital spreadsheet. Mr. Kelly
reported the total amount approved thus far taking into consideration the various category
reductions equals $26,384,721, with Major Capital paid of $24,920,188. He then discussed the
Transformation project and noted the cumulative amount submitted is $101,616,192, with a
remaining balance of $39,338,807 of the total $140,955,000 amount for the Transformation
Project from bond proceeds. Mr. Silliman noted that, after the $140,955,000 amount, the
Cavaliers self-fund the balance of the project costs and indicated that approximately six months
after the project started, the Cavaliers had already committed to an additional $45 million for the
transformation project.

He then addressed the Ballpark Alterations account noting that 2019 total receipts and
disbursements is $3,203,621 and $3,200,537 respectively and since 2014 the total is over $44
million. Mr. Kelly then provided a Progressive Field major capital account spreadsheet. The
cumulative Major Capital amount submitted equals $37,415,629, and total paid of $37,299,176
with a variance of $116,453. Mr. Kelly noted that if there are excess funds due to project cost
savings, Gateway submits a reallocation request to the County to previously approved items.
Mr. Silliman noted that this is the ballpark portion of the $60 million 2015 bond issue.

Mr. Silliman then asked Mr. Wilcox to address Resolution No. 2019-3 which would authorize
Gateway to enter into a new cooperative agreement with the County related to reimbursement
and/or payment for major capital repairs in connection with the County?s new bond issue and to
authorize execution of the new cooperative agreement. After Mr. Wilcox introduced and
described Resolution No. 2019-3, Mr. Silliman asked the Board if there were any questions and,
having heard no questions, asked if there was a motion to approve. Based on the presentation
and motion by Mr. Carroll and seconded by Ms. Russell, the following Resolution 2019-3 was
unanimously approved by the Board:

RESOLUTION NO. 2019-3

RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT
IN CONNECTION WITH
CUYAHOGA COUNTY 2019 GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS

WHEREAS, Gateway Economic Development Corporation of Greater Cleveland
(?Gateway?) has previously requested Cuyahoga County, Ohio (?County?) to pay for certain
expenses relating to the leases with the Cleveland Indians and Cleveland Cavaliers known as
major capital repairs (?Major Capital Repairs?); and

WHEREAS, in 2015, the County issued certain Excise Tax Bonds (the ?2015 Bonds?) to
pay for such Major Capital Repairs; and

WHEREAS, in connection with the 2015 Bonds, the County and Gateway entered into a
cooperative agreement to memorialize their agreement on use of the proceeds of the 2015 Bonds
for Major Capital Repairs; and

WHEREAS, the County has determined to refund the 2015 Bonds and to issue new
Bonds (the ?201 9 Bonds?); and

WHEREAS, the County and Gateway desire to enter into a new Cooperative Agreement
for the 2019 Bonds to provide for use of the proceeds for Major Capital Repairs (?Cooperative
Agreement?).

NOW, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Trustees of Gateway Economic
Development Corporation of Greater Cleveland:

1. That the Cooperative Agreement substantially on the form on ?le is hereby authorized
and approved.

2. That the Chair, Vice-Chair, Secretary and Executive Director, and each of them, are
authorized to sign the Cooperative Agreement in substantially the form on ?le and to carry out
its terms and take actions necessary for the issuance of the 2019 Bonds.



Mr. Silliman then stated that, to keep things in perspective in light of the County meeting related
to the new bond issue the previous day, Mr. Silliman wanted to note that the County and voters
had created a long-term funding source for the upkeep of the ageing arena and ballpark structures
and this funding mechanism was designed to avoid some of the problems that exist in other cities
regarding maintenance and upkeep of such structures.

Mr. Silliman stated that the Board would be next going into executive session in order to discuss
Specialized details of security arrangements where disclosure of the matters discussed might
reveal information that could be used for the purpose of committing, or avoiding prosecution for,
a violation of the law. Mr. Silliman advised that at the conclusion of the executive session, the
Board meeting would conclude with no further action taken except to adjourn the meeting but
that everyone was free to remain outside the Board meeting room and return at the conclusion of
the executive session. Thereafter, Mr. Carroll moved that the Board adjourn into Executive
Session for the purpose described by the Chairman, seconded by Mr. Ebersole and, upon a role
call vote, unanimously approved. The Board then went into Executive Session at 12:35 pm.

After exiting Executive Session, upon motion made by Mr. Carroll, seconded by Mr. Ebersole,
and unanimously approved, the Board adjourned the meeting at approximately 12:48 pm.

APPROVED:

 

Secretary-Treasurer

