THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
REPORT OF THE PRESIDENT AND CEO
TO THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
REGULAR MEETING OF NOVEMBER 20, 2019

Executive










I presented MetroHealth’s Board of Trustees approved 2020 budget to Cuyahoga County Council on
2019. The budget was approved by County Council.
The MetroHealth System Board of Trustees Retreat took place on October 31 and November 1, 2019
Morrison, PhD, an internationally known author and speaker specializing in long-term forecasting an
with an emphasis on health care and the changing business environment, addressed the Board of Tr
the Operations Leadership Council on the Future of Healthcare and the Unfolding Present.
I presented at the Alliance Bernstein Reception on November 6, 2019, sharing perspectives on the c
of health care and how MetroHealth is making an impact in the community beyond the hospital wall
CFA, Portfolio Manager, discussed the impact investing at Bernstein and reasons why MetroHealth w
as a key portfolio holding. Twenty-five people attended the reception.
As of November 12, 2019, MetroHealth and The LGBT Center teamed up to provide safe and suppor
care to the Cleveland LGBTQ community in the heart of the Gordon Square neighborhood.
MetroHealth’s Kate Brown, President of The MetroHealth foundation and Chief Development Officer
rd
MetroHealth System, was a featured speaker at City
Annual
Year’sWomen’s
3
Leadership Breakfast on
November 19, 2019. This year’s theme is Social Justice: Paving the Way for Future Generations.
MetroHealth welcomed State Senator Nickie J. Antonio when she visited the MetroHealth Parma Med
where she received an overview of the work being done at the Reproductive Endocrinology Institute
Medication Assisted Treatment (MAT) for Opioid Addiction Clinic.
I was honored to join Dr. Alex Johnson at the Diversity Center annual dinner on Wednesday, Novemb
where he and I received the humanitarian award for the ongoing work to eliminate discrimination an
diversity and inclusion.

Chief of Staff

Department of Public Safety
 Three officers attended School Resource Officer training which affords the department the opportun
in a wider scope of community-oriented policing.
 Lt. Henderson along with Detectives Mealey and Remington conducted a Heads-Up Situational Awar
for over 100 attendants at the Old Brooklyn Campus on October 17, 2019. Topics regarding persona
campus and human trafficking were addressed.
 For employee safety, all Blue Emergency Call boxes across the MetroHealth System have be
updated. New boxes have been installed at some locations. The installation, repair and updates to c
process.

Government Relations
Federal
 On October 22-23, 2019, MetroHealth staff met with Ohio delegation members to discuss Medicaid
Disproportionate Share Hospital (DSH) payment cuts and other health system priorities as part of th
Hospital Association’s Policy Assembly.
 Susan Fuehrer and Michael Dalton met with Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur on November 7, 2019, to
MetroHealth’s Institute for H.O.P.E.
State
 State Treasurer Robert Sprague visited MetroHealth and the Lincoln West School of Science and Hea
more about his ResultsOhio Initiative and hear about MetroHealth’s workforce development efforts.

 Community Relations
 MetroHealth will partner with Greater Cleveland Food Bank, WRAAA and St. Luke’s Foundation to dis
more than 3,000 turkeys to those in need at numerous locations including MetroHealth Main Campu
MetroHealth Buckeye, Urban Community School, WRAAA senior markets and the Food Bank. (Kick off
conference is November 19, 2019.)
 Participated in Great Lakes Science Center “Health Career Exploration Day” on November 14, 2019.
MetroHealth employees, from providers to nurses to HR, interacted with more than 200 under-serve
th
th
students in grades
through
6
12
to expand their knowledge of health and biomedical technology careers
 Partnered with the Cuyahoga County Board of Elections to ensure hospitalized MetroHealth patients
provided the opportunity to vote in the November 5, 2019, election.
 Sandra Hoch, RN, Coordinator Childbirth Education Program and member of First Year Cleveland Act
“Safe Sleep”, and “Safe Sleep” loss trainer Marlene Biggins, participated in a women’s wellness eve
Word Church.
 Hosted Leadership Cleveland class of 2020 “Neighborhood Day” on October 3, 2019, comprised of 7
community stakeholders who learned about MetroHealth, our Transformation and our community ini
Also hosted Cleveland Leadership Institute cohort of 40 community stakeholders on November 8, 20
group learned about economic development and toured the Campus Transformation Center.

Communications
 Channel 5 covered a story on MetroHealth’s Institute for H.O.P.E. and a patient who dramatically imp
health by participating in our healthy Latin cooking program, VIDA!
 A Channel 3 segment on our Mobile 3D Mammography Coach, parked at the station so employees c
conveniently get their mammograms during October, Breast Cancer Awareness Month. As a result, o
businesses are scheduling the van at their workplaces.
 Heart-warming Fox 8 coverage reported on the graduation of the first MetroHealth Nurse Family Part
class of 2-year-olds and their parents, part of our effort to reduce infant mortality.

Finance
 Craig Richmond participated as a panelist at Becker's Healthcare 8th Annual CEO + CFO Roundtable
November 11, 2019. The two panel topics were: “How Does Financial Leadership Ensure Revenue C
Management is Effective and Efficient” and “Budgeting for Operations and Capital in a Changing Wo
 RSM US LLP, the System’s external auditors, has been onsite for interim fieldwork related to the 201
October 14, 2019. The audit team has tested our main transaction cycles, reviewed our internal con
reviewed compliance with the Ohio Compliance Supplement (OCS). RSM also selected grants from t
of Federal Awards (SEFA) and began testing grant compliance with allowable costs.
 The Financial Reporting team is performing a review of all contracts to evaluate the impact of GASB
the System. The impact of GASB 87 needs to be reflected in the System’s financial statements beg
Each contract deemed to fall under the scope of GASB 87 will be recorded on the balance sheet as a
for the remaining lease payments and an intangible right-to-use asset.
 The Financial Planning and Analysis team facilitated third quarter business plan reviews with each s
and business unit to support achievement of organizational objectives.
 Enrollment on Wheels RV participated in 27 events in October, servicing 182 community members.
provided are scheduling of medical clinic appointments, insurance education, and assistance with fi
eligibility. There were thirteen events on the West Side and fourteen on the East Side.
 From January to October 2019, within the RV, 2,910 services were rendered to our community, servi
members.
 Donna Graham, Executive Director of Revenue Cycle Management, presented “How The MetroHealt
Embracing Consumerism” to healthcare leaders around the country. As a board member, she also c
with her IS partner Ashish Masih, Director Business Applications, at the Northern Ohio Chapter HIMS
Conference “The Future of Healthcare and IT’s Impact.”
Page 2 of 8

 

The Revenue Cycle Management team led panel discussions at the EPIC Ohio User Group. Education
knowledge sharing were provided in the area of consumerism, which included price transparency, p
estimates, medical records and management sensitivity.

Internal Audit
 Internal Audit facilitated workshops with approximately 100 members of the leadership team to obt
perspective on risks impacting the organization. These sessions support the development of the 202
Audit plan which will be presented to the Audit and Compliance Committee of the Board of Trustees
December.

Enterprise Data Analytics
 A member of the Department of Research and Analytics (DORA) team co-authored an article in The
Commission Journal on the use of the “third-next available slot” as a standard measurement metric
ambulatory access.
 A DORA team member recently achieved a certificate as a “Certified Specialist in Business Intelligen
HFMA. The program broadened the team member’s knowledge of modern issues facing Healthcare
and, more importantly, equipped them with the skills to proactively respond to those challenges.

Information Systems (IS)
 Information Services has successfully completed onboarding of a Security Operations Center. This s
provide 24x7x365 monitoring of MetroHealth’s cyber security systems, ingesting over 500 million e
our systems, and reviewing over 100 alerts a day. In addition, they will be available for on-site cybe
assistance when needed.
 The IS Data Center Operations and Service Desk teamed with the Environmental Services Departme
their work order system into System’s Service Management system, GIVA. This provided improved
robust reporting, and the ability to evolve their operations to meet hospital needs more effectively.
 The IS Clinical Application team successfully upgraded the electronic health record and billing syste
long term care patients. The upgrades included essential updates to clinical documentation and billi
to support the new Medicare Patient-Driven Payment Model (PDPM) required for skilled nursing facili
a completely new payment model shifting reimbursements from therapy to higher paying nursing ca
 Dave Fiser, VP/CIO participated in an executive panel on October 17, 2019, for the North Coast Chap
Help Desk Institute (HDI). The panel, comprised of IT executives from Healthcare, Manufacturing, an
explored new trends in Information Technology and IT Service Management.

Enterprise Program Management Office
 MetroHealth is implementing a voice-recognition dictation tool for clinicians, which also utilizes artifi
intelligence. The product, called 3M Fluency Direct, will enable providers to dictate remotely, accur
the complete patient narrative directly in Epic, and will enhance clinical documentation quality, cod
billing.

Supply Chain
 Justin Gallo joined MetroHealth in September 2019 as the System’s Vice President of Supply Chain.
recently was the head of the international supply chain management for the Cleveland Clinic. Justin
in the United States Navy Reserve as the Southwest Region Emergency Operations Officer.
 MetroHealth continues to partner with Standvast and Zitra to transform the System’s supply chain in
strategic advantage. The end-to-end redesign of supply chain will establish processes, workflows, a
that leverage the best in class tools to ensure our patients and employees receive the right items at
place and time.
 The supply chain contracting team continues to leverage new data and analytic sources to review c
pricing opportunities for the system. Advanced knowledge of pricing allows MetroHealth to drive gr
through contracting and purchasing.
Page 3 of 8

 System Dyad
 Michael Stern provided the opening remarks for a 340B Health Roundtable event hosted at Main Cam
October 28, 2019.

Inpatient Operations
 A new Acute Care for Elders (ACE) inpatient unit is being created in a collaboration with Quality, the
of Geriatrics, Inpatient Medicine Service Line, and Neuro-Musculoskeletal Service Line. The new uni
Q1 2020 with a focus on robust multidisciplinary care of elderly patients through workflows designe
clinical, mobility, and social factors impacting acute and post-hospital needs.
 Multiple throughput projects continue which have supported continued improvements in length of st
percent reduction in ALOS vs. prior year.
 Patient Experience scores at all inpatient locations have sustained improvements with “recommend
12 percent compared to 2018.

Emergency Preparedness
 MetroHealth Emergency Management and Comprehensive Burn Center teams continue to contribute
Burn Surge committee. With a finalized and approved statewide plan, the committee is developing
and information rollout to EMS partners as well as to emergency departments, urgent and express c
and trauma centers throughout the state.
 According to the Cleveland Office of the National Weather Service at their winter weather briefing an
current predictions indicate above normal temperatures for 2019 and above normal precipitation for
beginning of 2020. In preparation, MetroHealth’s Emergency Management office is updating our Co
Playbook.

Environmental Services, Logistics, and Textile Care
 MetroHealth was named the new training site for all new support services leaders by the Internation
Housekeepers Association, Inc. (IEHA).
 A new parking business office was opened outside of the Towers Main Entrance to provide convenien
patients and employees needing parking assistance.
 Patient Transport staff have new bright blue scrubs for easy visibility and identification for our patien
 New wheelchairs were deployed to the Emergency Department entrance for easy access and availa

Pharmacy
 MetroHealth hosted the 340B Workshop in Ohio on October 28, 2019, which was attended by nearly
healthcare leaders from across the state and region. MetroHealth is a member of 340B Health, a no
organization that advocates for affordable pharmaceutical and clinical care for our nation’s poor and
underserved populations. MetroHealth’s physician, Sherrie Williams, MD, is board chair of 340B Hea
 MetroHealth Specialty Pharmacy has been granted access to a drug manufacturer’s limited drug dis
(LDD) network providing access to a few new oral chemotherapy medications. This access allows th
to closely monitor the patient’s home therapy and adherence to taking the medication correctly.
 Adam Ingram, PharmD, Megan Valente, PharmD, BCACP and Mary Ann Dzurec, PharmD, BCACP publ
article, “Evaluating Pharmacist Impact on Guideline-Directed Medical Therapy in Patients with Reduc
Fraction Heart Failure,” in the Journal of Pharmacy Practice.

Radiology
 Radiology’s computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) continue to surpass
CT volumes 3.6 percent favorable and MR volumes 8 percent favorable.
 Mobile mammography achieved ACR (American College of Radiology) accreditation.
 Mammography volumes have increased with the implementation of mobile mammography. Volume
month of October were 7.5 percent favorable.

Page 4 of 8

 Service Lines

Adult Health and Wellness
Express Care:
 In Touch Telehealth went live October 15, 2019, at our Discount Drug Mart North Royalton retail loca
first in a series of expansions of “virtual visits” for our Retail locations.
Geriatrics:
 October 6, 2019, the Geriatrics team held the Annual Alzheimer’s Walk at the Cleveland MetroParks
 Dr. James Campbell spoke at the Annual Advanced Practice Registered Nurse Pharmacological Confe
200 APRN’s were present.
 October 26, 2019, Old Brooklyn Health Center held their annual FALLOWEEN Festival. Over 350 free
were given out to attendees.
 Dr. James Campbell and Dr. Fassill Gemechu launched a “virtual face time” visit pilot for Senior Heal
patients that were admitted to inpatient floors.
 Expanded the RedCarpet Medicare program with a focus on home visits after inpatient admissions.
Primary Care:
 MetroHealth welcomed Xiaolei Jiang, APRN to our Broadway Health Center and Virginia Jindra, APRN
Westpark health Center.
Behavioral Health:
 Dr. Britt A. Nielsen, Dr. Susan Painter (Bolton School of Nursing), and Amy Korsch-Williams (Mandel S
Applied Social Sciences) presented at the Collaborating Across Borders Conference in Indianapolis o
October 21, 2019. They presented on their grant funded work to provide Interprofessional training in
primary care to trainees across multiple disciplines.
 Dr. Terry Stancin, PhD., was a visiting Professor at Dayton’s Children’s Hospital October 17th and Ch
Hospital of Los Angeles on November 1, 2019.
Behavioral Health Publications:
 Mancini, K., Wicoff, M., & Stancin, T. Clinical supervision in integrated pediatric primary care: the PAR
action. Training and Education in Professional Psychology, 13, 316-322.
School Health Program:
 Began services at expanded sites including PEP schools, Heights High School (Cleveland Heights-Un
Heights School District, and Urban Community School).
 Katie Davis (SHP Director) Dr. Alexandrea Golden (Research Fellow), and Courtney Hutchinson (Arts
presented on Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs) at Delta Sigma Theta’s Community Health Day
School Harvey Rice.
 John Yousef (SHP Nurse Practitioner) presented “Vaping and Youth” at Cleveland Heights-University H
School District’s Staff Professional Day.
MetroHealth Recovery Resources:
 Expansion of Lakewood Recovery Resources to add group counseling space for growth in Intensive O
Therapy and Group Therapy.
 Cuyahoga County ADAMHS Board requested Recovery Resources partner on Addiction Treatment Pro
court docket.
 Cuyahoga County ADAMHS Board increased funding for the Community Based Correctional Facility (
$40,000 annually to support their ongoing efforts in forensic patient care.
Dental Medicine:
 Dr. Monica Constantin, DDS, received the “Diplomate of The American Board of Pediatric Dentistry”
board recognition.

Cancer Care
 Dr. Ila Tamaskar (Hematology/Oncology) was recently named the fellowship program site director. T
MetroHealth System collaborates with University Hospitals and the VA Northeast Ohio for the
Hematology/Oncology program.
Page 5 of 8

 


Cancer Research is working on three Process Improvement projects focused on improving patient
accrual. Projects include: EPIC optimization, NCI Credentialing development and tracking, and enha
education for infusion nurses.
Radiation Oncology team members Justine (Tina) Smith, Diane Loska, and Ashley Sayre recently atte
educational workshop at The Ohio State University to learn new treatment techniques so that The M
System can offer more Radiation Oncology treatment options for Breast Cancer patients.

Emergency Services
 Brecksville and Parma Emergency Departments were surveyed by the Acute Stroke Ready Hospital J
Commission on October 22 & 23, 2019, and the survey was a success. The Joint Commission survey
Main Campus based Flight Communications Specialists for a Best Practice Model relating to the man
triage, and transfer of acutely ill and injured patients to higher level of care destinations for safe pat
outcomes.
 The Event Medicine Team is wrapping up the 2019 year with over 15 special events and provision of
Aid/Medical Services, which provided the opportunity to market the MetroHealth brand across and b
county. Planning for the new year includes increased use of the newly created Bicycle Medicine Tea
enhance treatment and destination times for community activities.
 The Forensic Medicine Nursing Team members are teaching First Responders how to recognize signs
symptoms of Human Trafficking Victims through live presentations at multiple local fire departments
inception earlier this year, multiple Fire Service Departments in outlying communities have requeste
presentation for their medics.

Neuro-Musculoskeletal
 We are very pleased to announce that James Wilson, DO will be joining the department of PM&R at T
MetroHealth System as our next Director of Spinal Cord Injury Rehabilitation, effective late Decembe
Dr. Wilson is presently Assistant Professor of PM&R at Case Western Reserve University (CWRU) and
physician on the Spinal Cord Injury/Disorders Service of the Louis Stokes Veterans Affairs Medical Ce
Dr. Wilson is board certified in PM&R with subspecialty certification in Spinal Cord Medicine.
 We would like to congratulate Jared Placeway, DO and Kimberly Anderson, PhD, for their respective
appointments to Assistant Professor and Professor of PM&R at the Case Western Reserve University
School of Medicine.
Department Faculty Achievements:
 Dr Ardelt: Appointed as consultant for the Ohio Coverdell Stroke Program. Dr Ardelt and NCCU team
commended by a grateful patient family and received a donation (working with the Foundation to de
further). He also contributed 5 chapters to the book on Legal and Ethical issues in Neurocritical Care
out this October (2019).
 Dr Roitberg: Invited to teach at the Senior Society Junior resident course (St Louis April 2019), prese
European Association of Neurosurgical Societies/Southeastern European Neurosurgical Society meet
October 2019 and was presented with Honorary membership – Southeastern European Neurosurgica

Specialty Care
 Specialty care would like to welcome the newest providers to Metro Health: Kiersten Schaeler (Nurse
Cardiology) and Margaret McKerrnan (Physician Assistant Dermatology).
 Dr Meera Kondapaneni accepted the role as Vice Chairperson for Gender, Equity, Diversity and Inclu
Department of Medicine.
 The Infectious Disease Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program successfully participated in a case study. The M
Infectious Disease Program was one of 5 selected to be highlighted in the 2019 Ryan White HIV/AIDS
Biennial Report. The Division of Domestic Programs especially liked the MH Infectious Disease webs
which offers tools and processes of intervention, HIV information and a platform for connecting with
HIV/AIDs.

Page 6 of 8

 Women and Children’s
 Dr. Margaret Stager has been awarded the 2019 Exceptional Women in Medicine award and named
Doctor” in her field five years in a row.
 Dr. Lynn Milliner has been named the Medical Director for the Cleveland Department of Public Health

Ambulatory Operations
 Parma Medical Center hosted Trick or Treat Flu Event on October 18,2019, vaccinating over 100 kids
 Cleveland Heights has been hosting community flu clinics, 3 so far, with one more to go in Novembe
over 200 community members have taken advantage of this extra offering. The last flu clinic was a
themed event where the team vaccinated nearly 80 people.

Ethics and Compliance
 Published new blog, Ethically Speaking, titled “Building Trust Through Transparency.”
 Actively working on implementation of new conflict of interest management software.
 Completed annual compliance training for the Board of Trustees.
 Launched annual compliance training for employees using new training techniques - white board an
television news reporting.
 Launched ethics and compliance culture survey.
 Distributed provider scorecards on coding patterns to show comparison to national benchmarks.

Nursing
March of Dimes Nurse of the Year Awards
 Three MetroHealth nurses were honored as nominees at the Ohio March of Dimes Nurse of the Year
ceremony on November 1, 2019. Nurses can be nominated in one of 20 categories.
 MHS nominees were:
 Research-Wendy Sarver, PhD, RN, NEA-BC
 Ambulatory Care-Lisa Vibbert, BSN, RN-BC
 Surgical Services and Procedural Areas-Kathleen Glaser, MSN, RN, CNOR
 MHS Winner:
 Kathleen Glaser, MSN, RN, CNOR WON for the category of Surgical Services and Procedural Areas
 Former Director of Nursing Research and Evidence Based Practice, Molly McNett, PhD, RN, CNRN, FA
published Data for Nurses: Understanding and Using Data to Optimize Care Delivery in Hospitals and
book was released November 19, 2019 and is available on Amazon. Several MetroHealth nurses co
 Matthew Kaufmann, MSN, RN-Director, Quality Institute
 Melissa Kline, DNP, RN, NEA-BC-SVP, Patient Care Services and Chief Nursing Officer
 Wendy Sarver, PhD, RN, NEA-BC-Director, Nursing Research
 Kelly Seabold, MSN, RN-BC, NEA-BC-Director, Nursing Excellence

Foundation and System Philanthropy
 MetroHealth’s For All of Us $100 million campaign is moving forward, with $40.1 million of the $4
committed to program and endowment and $8.3 million committed to capital.
 MetroHealth has received over $50,000 in important general campaign gifts this past month from
donors including The Swagelok Foundation, Janet Neary and former System Trustee, Bill Gaskill.
 The Healthnetwork Foundation contributed $30,000 to establish the Rick Wiedemer Family Fund,
of Mr. Wiedemer. The gift was in honor of Mr. Wiedemer’s nurse and physician caregivers. It will
annual symposium in neuroscience critical care nursing, under the direction of Dr. Agnieszka Ard
Theresa Hannu.
 The Westfield Insurance Fund has granted $50,000 to MetroHealth to support the construction of
lab at the Lincoln West School of Science & Health. MHF Board member, Jon Groza, was instrume
securing this support.
 The Treu-Mart Fund has contributed $26,250 to the Feingold Child at Risk Fund to provide partial
support for a SANE nurse in MetroHealth’s Alpha Clinic.
Page 7 of 8

 

MetroHealth received recognition during an event at the Greater Cleveland Foodbank hosted by
Bank. Bruce Van Saun, Chairman and CEO, Citizens Bank cited MetroHealth’s Food as Medicine i
an exemplary program. Citizens Bank has been a consistent supporter of the initiative, contribut
over the last two years.

Page 8 of 8

 