THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
FINANCE COMNIITTEE

REGULAR MEETING MINUTES

DATE: Tuesday, April 18, 2018
TIME: 8:00 to 10:00 am
PLACE: MetroHealth Medical Center

K107, Business Services Building

CONINIITTEE Mr. McDonald and Dr. Silvers

TRUSTEES:

ADDITIONAL Ms. Dee

TRUSTEES:

STAFF: B. Boulanger, M.D., A. Boutros, M.D., N. Chehade, M.D., G. Himes,
J. Kerkay, M. Phillips, .1. Flatten, C. Richmond, M. Stern

GUESTS:

Dr. Silvers called the regular meeting of the Finance Committee to order at 8:03 am. Please note the
minutes are written to conform to the printed agenda and are not necessarily in the order of discussion.

I.

H.

The minutes of the regular meeting held on January 17, 2018 were approved as presented.
INFORMATION ITEMS

Craig Richmond, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Of?cer provided an overview of the
First Quarter 2018 Unaudited Financial and Operational Results. Mr. Richmond reported that
Adjusted Earnings before Interest, Depreciation and Amortization for the three months
ended March 31, 2018 was $19.9 million, an increase of $2.9 million or 16.9 percent over the same
period in 2017 which had an EBIDA of $17.0 million. EBIDA increase was mainly attributed to
growth from emergency department volumes, patient acuity, improved payor mix, expanded
pharmacy operations, and lower liability insurance costs.

Mr. Richmond further reported that total operating income for the first quarter of 20 1 8 was $5.3
million, compared with operating income of $3.4 million in the same period of 2017, an increase of
$1.9 million or 56.4 percent.

During the ?rst quarter of 201 8, total operating revenue was $287.2 million as compared to ?rst
quarter of 2017 of $270.8 million an increase of 6.1 percent. The revenue growth was attributable
to both an increase in net patient service revenue of $9.8 million or 4.2 percent and an increase in
other operating revenue of $6.6 million or 18.7 percent mainly driven by growth in retail and
contract pharmacy operations. The System showed continued growth in the acuity of its business
with the overall case mix index reported at 1.68 for the ?rst quarter of 2018 as compared to 1.58 for
the same period in 2017. Key drivers of the increased net patient revenue include modest
improvement in payor mix, higher overall acuity of cases, and generally higher volume.

Mr. Richmond noted the System recorded total operating expenses of $281.8 million for the ?rst
quarter of 2018 as compared to $267.3 million for the same period in 2017, which is an increase of

Finance Committee Meeting Minutes
April 18, 2018
Page 2 of 3

$14.5 million or 5.4 percent, comparing favorably to the total operating revenue increase of 16.4
million. Most of the increase was in salary, wages and bene?ts for additional staff to accommodate
volume growth and pharmacy costs associated with the retail pharmacy expansion.

Mr. Richmond proceeded with reviewing the Statement of Net Position as of March 31, 2018
compared to December 31, 2017. Areas of note were $6.8 million increase in net patient accounts
receivable which was attributed to an increase in the average net patient service revenue per day, (ii)
restricted assets under bond indenture agreement decreased $23.1 million due to interest payments,
and net capital assets increased $14.7 million due to costs associated with the View Road
parking garage and transformation planningfdesign services. Total liabilities decreased by $4.6
million which was mainly due to the timing of payments for contribution payable, interest payable
and professional liability claims settlement.

Mr. Richmond reviewed Unrestricted Cash and Investment balances, noting that the ?rst quarter of
2018 remained relatively flat when compared to December 31, 2017. Regarding MetroHealth?s bond
covenants and rating agency median ratios, Jeff Kerkay, Treasurer shared that the System?s bond
covenants (days cash on hand and minimum debt service coverage ratio) are within compliance.
Lastly, the Advisory Board Credit Rating Strength Diagnostic Tool was reviewed which measures
the system?s ?nancial metrics against benchmarks derived from hospital medians of the major credit
rating agencies.

Bernard Boulanger, M.D., Executive Vice President and Chief Clinical Of?cer provided an overview
of the Utilization Metrics for ?rst quarter of 201 8 comparing to the same period in 2017. Inpatient
discharges were down; however, both the Medicare and total facility case mix index (CMI)
were signi?cantly up due to patient acuity. Equivalent admissions had increased (adjusts for
outpatient volumes), surgical volumes continued to show growth due to outpatient cases over prior
year, as well as emergency department visits and observation cases.

Michael Stern, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Of?cer provided an overview of the
Access Metrics and discussed Slot Utilization which continues to increase, Network Service Center
(NSC) metrics have gone down due to a recent location move, but are expected to improve.
Ambulatory Network and Hospital Patient Experience metrics had increased and decreased
respectively compared to the same period in 2017. Dr. Boulanger reviewed the Productivity
statistics with emphasis on the work relative value units (RVUs) which is a measurement of provider
productivity increased. Geoff Himes, Vice President of Finance concluded with a review of the
Capital Structure Ratios, Working Capital Ratios, and the Expense and Revenue metrics.

Mr. Richmond and Jeff Kerkay provided an update and overview of the MetroHealth Investment
Policy and Implementation Strategy. Discussion proceeded around the process outlined by Hartland,
MetroHealth?s Investment Advisor, for the investment of the System?s Qualifying Funds in
accordance with the Ohio Revised Code and the proposed implementation approach.

Mr. Himes provided a review and update of GASB Statement No. 75 Accounting and Financial
Reporting for Other Postemployment Bene?ts (OPEB). The System is required to implement the
provisions of the Statement for ?scal year end December 31, 2018. Recognition of the standard is
similar to GASB 68, recorded annually using the results from the OPERS actuary reports.

111. ITEMS

A. There are no items to report at this time.

Finance Committee Meeting Minutes
April 18, 2018
Page 3 of 3

IV. CONSENT ITEMS
A. A Recommendation for Approval of an Investment Policy for The MetroHealth System
The Committee unanimously approved the recommendation for full Board action.
At this point in the meeting a motion was made, seconded and passed to move the Committee into
Executive Session to discuss trade secrets and litigation matters. The Committee returned to regular
session at 9:41 am.

There being no further business to bring before the Committee, the meeting was adjourned at 9:49 am.

Respectfully submitted,

Crai mond
Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Of?cer

