GATEWAY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION OF GREATER CLEVELAND
Minutes of a Meeting of the
Board of Trustees
Held on February 18, 2015
3:00 o'clock p.m.
Offices of
Climaco, Wilcox, Peca, Tarantino & Garofoli Co., L.P.A.
Cleveland, Ohio
There being a quorum present, Mr. Offtermatt called the meeting to
order at approximately 3:05 p.m. The following Board members were
present: Timothy Offtermatt, Matt Carroll, Tracey Nichols and
Emmanuel Glover. Board member William Reidy was absent. Also present
were Todd Greathouse, Brian Kelly, Daniella Nunnally of Gateway and
Dennis Wilcox, General Counsel, as well as Michael King from Cuyahoga
County, William Tarter, Jr. from the general public and Andrew Tobias
from Northeast Ohio Media Group.
The first order of business was to consider approval of the Minutes
of the November 19, 2014 meeting. Upon motion made by Mr. Carroll,
seconded by Ms. Nichols, the Minutes of that meeting were unanimously
approved.
The next item on the agenda was public comment. Mr. Tarter asked if
the agendas for the meetings were now on line and Mr. Offtermatt
indicated that they were. There were no further public comments.
Next was the Chairman’s report. Mr. Offtermatt first reported on
proposed Arena alterations which were reported in the press. He
stated that Gateway has not seen any of the proposed alterations that
the Cleveland Cavaliers have presented to the County, nor have the
Cavs presented anything to Gateway in terms of proposed alterations
to the Arena. Mr. Offtermatt indicated he understands that this is
part of the Cavs future plans for the Arena and he will expect to
receive something from them at some point. Mr. Glover then asked if
there was a deadline for approval or completion of these improvements
and Mr. Offtermatt said he was not aware of any.
Mr. Offtermatt then discussed the 2014 extension of the Excise Tax or
Sin Tax. The tax levy should commence collection in 2015 beginning in
September with a full month of revenue projected to be in October.
He reported that certain Major Capital items previously approved by
Gateway and delivered to the County for the Arena were on-going and
the Ballpark Major Capital items have not started yet. He reiterated
that the Excise Tax money belongs to the County and this is not a
Gateway decision.
Ms. Nichols also reemphasized that these are

 proposed Major Capital items for use of the Sin Tax and they have not
been approved by the County. Mr. Carroll indicated on behalf of the
County that this is an on-going discussion at the County.
Next, the Executive Director’s report was considered. The first item
on the agenda was the discussion of the Downtown Cleveland
Improvement District which is up for renewal in 2016 for a new 5 year
term from 2016 to 2020. Mr. Greathouse indicated that the proposed
amount of the new payment would be $118,816.25 on the parcels which
Gateway operates. Mr. Greathouse indicated that the teams approved
the new plan in response to a question from Mr. Offtermatt. Brian
Kelly noted that the previous amount budgeted for 2015 was
approximately $130,000 and the initial payment in 2016 would be
reduced to approximately $118,000. Each year thereafter that amount
would go up by 1%. Mr. Greathouse also emphasized that the teams pay
this amount under the Budget.
Also, in addition to the renewal of the plan, the Plan District will
be expanded to include the Flats area. In addition, the Board is
being requested to approve the expansion to the Flats area for the
remainder of the term of the current Plan.
Ms. Nichols then stated that the Downtown Cleveland Improvement
District is used by the City as a business expansion and attraction
tool. She summarized some of the services provided by the Downtown
Cleveland Improvement District, including walking employees to their
cars after work, jump starting cars that are stranded and other
activities that provide safety to the downtown user. She also noted
that this is used as a technique to attract new businesses and
tenants because of the security and additional cleaning of the area.
She also reported on how tourists comment on how clean the streets
are and it leads to repeat visitors to the City. Finally, she noted
that the inclusion of the Flats will also enhance that area,
including the new boardwalk that will be opening and the beginning of
water taxis on the east bank of the Flats and that will benefit the
downtown and the entire city.
After further discussion by the Board, Ms. Nichols then moved for
approval of the following Resolution which was seconded by Mr. Glover
and unanimously approved by the Board.
RESOLUTION NO. 2015-1
AUTHORIZING AND APPROVING CONTINUED
PARTICIPATION IN DOWNTOWN CLEVELAND
IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
AND APPROVAL OF EXPANDED IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
WHEREAS, a sufficient number of the owners of certain downtown
properties in the City of Cleveland, Ohio (the “City”), previously
executed a petition in 2005 (the “2005 Petition”) to approve the
creation of The Downtown Cleveland Improvement District (“Improvement
2

 District”) and to approve the Initial Comprehensive Services Plan of
the Improvement District (the “Initial Plan”); and
WHEREAS, Gateway Economic Development Corporation of Greater
Cleveland (“Gateway”) property is located within the Improvement
District and Gateway’s Board of Trustees did by Resolution 2005-3
authorize and approve participation in such Initial Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Initial Plan was replaced by a 2010 Plan, which
plan and corresponding petition Gateway approved; and
WHEREAS, a new Petition (the “2015 Petition”) and Comprehensive
Services Plan (the “2015 Plan”), to be effective from 2016-2020, has
been presented to Gateway; and
WHEREAS, such 2015 Plan includes an expanded Improvement
District to include the Flats East Development (“FED Area”); and
WHEREAS, continuation of the Improvement District as expanded in
the
2015
Plan
(the
“Expanded
Improvement
District”)
and
implementation of the 2015 Plan will result in an assessment against
Gateway’s property which it operates of $118,816.25 annually (the
“Assessment”), beginning in collection year 2016 and to be increased
by 1% annually, which is approximately 8% less initially than the
amount approved in the 2015 Operating Budget by Gateway, the
Cleveland Indians and Cleveland Cavaliers;
WHEREAS, the Cleveland Indians and the Cleveland Cavaliers, as
the tenants of Gateway’s property, have agreed to pay the full cost
of the prior assessments as part of the budgets approved pursuant to
their leases on the prior plans; and
WHEREAS, the Executive Director of Gateway desires to execute
the Petition upon receiving assurance from the Cleveland Indians and
Cleveland Cavaliers that the Assessment would be paid by them
pursuant to the annual Gateway Budget; and
WHEREAS, the Executive Director also wishes to approve the
inclusion of the FED Area in the existing plan area effective in 2015
by approving an amendment to the Articles of Incorporation of the
Improvement District (the “Articles Amendment”); and
WHEREAS, the Board believes it is in the best interest of
Gateway to execute the Articles Amendment, and continue in its
participation in the Expanded Improvement District and desires to
authorize and approve the 2015 Petition and the 2015 Plan and
Assessment and to authorize and approve the Executive Director’s
execution and return of the 2015 Petition on behalf of Gateway and
execution of approval of the Articles Amendment.
NOW, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board hereby authorizes and
approves Gateway becoming a member of the Expanded Improvement
3

 District and authorizes and approves the 2015 Petition and 2015 Plan
and Assessment and the Articles Amendment.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Board does hereby authorize and
approve the execution of the Articles Amendment and 2015 Petition on
behalf of Gateway by the Executive Director and further authorizes
the Executive Director to take all actions necessary for Gateway to
become a member of the Expanded Improvement District and to approve
the 2015 Plan.
_________________
Next, the Executive Director continued his report and specifically
Common Area site security noting that Securitas continues to handle
security which has been increased recently. In addition, the Arena
security area utilizes dogs near the underground service area to
protect that area. He also reported on the bollards leading to the
underground service area which are now 10 years old. Due to the
subfreezing temperatures the bollards do not function as well because
of the technology using pneumatic technology. As a result there will
be new technology added to the bollards so that they will operate
better in cold weather.
Mr. Greathouse next discussed site
maintenance. He complimented his staff on the work they have done in
the common areas during the cold winter months. He then reported on
site work that would be on-going including moving and installing of
the 6,000 pavers that were at Gate C over to Gate A of the Ballpark,
including 200 broken pavers that will be replaced by the Cleveland
Indians. He also noted that the Indians would be preparing an index
of the pavers on line for those who want to locate a particular
paver.
He then discussed Quickens Loan Arena. He gave an update on the
progress of Major Capital items.
First, he reported on the
scoreboard, which had a total contract of approximately $9,332,000,
of which $8,656,000 had been paid, leaving a balance of approximately
$676,000 in retainage. In addition, there was a $300,000 overrun
which is to be paid by the Cavaliers. On further questioning by Mr.
Offtermatt, Mr. Greathouse noted that the Cavs would be supplying a
letter confirming that they were making the payment of the overrun
and any other overruns on the scoreboard project directly.
The
retainage will be in place until Dave Faller, Gateway’s engineering
consultant, reviews the hoist system to the scoreboard.
Mr. Greathouse then gave a report on the video production control
room which was under budget by approximately $321,000. Again, the
Cavs asked for a change order for more cooling components including a
floating floor and this overage is being paid by the Cavs and being
confirmed as such in correspondence to Gateway.
He then gave an update on the Arena sound system which is a $1.8
million contract with $5,000 of retainage being held, which is also
under budget. He then discussed the upcoming Arena roof repair which
4

 is being reviewed by WJ Systems, the architectural firm reviewing the
specifications and bid documents.
Contract documents are being
prepared for this repair. Mr. Offtermatt asked when that would
commence, and Mr. Greathouse indicated after the last Cavs’ playoff
game. The budget for the roof repair is $4,474,000.
Next, he reported on the command center upgrades noting that this is
a $3,090,000 proposed upgrade, with specifications being reviewed by
staff, and will be considered later.
At that point there was a discussion of the Republican National
Committee use of Common Areas during the RNC Convention. Mr. Wilcox
summarized the status of this matter. It was noted that there had
been discussions, but Gateway is awaiting a proposal from the RNC.
It was agreed by the Board that we should send the Gateway Common
Area Maintenance Special Event Application so they would at least
have something to review. Ms. Nichols also advised that we should be
concerned about the potential weight loads on the common areas from
large trucks that might be there during the event. Gateway staff
responded that they had gone through this with the Marine Week Event,
including military equipment on that same area.
Mr. Greathouse then continued his report on the Progressive Field ongoing repairs, including the cooling towers which are being reviewed
and are being repaired and fixed to extend their useful life. He also
reported on glycol leak which occurred which has now been fixed and
the system updated.
Finally, he noted that there are lighting
upgrades being considered throughout the Ballpark, including removing
and replacing lights with LED for approximately $225,000.
He then reported on the status of the Ballpark Alterations.
He
indicated he is attending weekly meetings with the contractors and
Indians. They are on track for completing the work by Opening Day
for baseball. The Indians may continue upper deck work potentially
after Opening Day because of slow work schedules because of weather.
They are working in areas along the lower concourse by using weather
proofing construction methods.
The Gate C concrete pour will be
delayed under better weather. To date disbursements of approximately
$7,743,943.69 have been made for this project.
Mr. Offtermatt then noted that the Indians had just recently sent
over letters requesting Major Capital items for the Ballpark. The
staff has not had a chance to review these in any detail, and they
will be given to Dave Faller for his review and analysis. Then the
items would be brought back to the Board in the May meetings.
Next, Daniella Nunnally discussed the inclusion performance with
respect to the Progressive Field and Quickens Loan Arena projects.
She first reviewed the scoreboard and digital display project which
demonstrated a contract attainment for MBE of 11% as opposed to the
15% contract goal, 11% for FBE compared to the 7% contract goal and
48% to CSB/SBE as opposed to the 8% goal. She also broke out the
5

 total contract numbers adding back in the specialty items that had
been removed for the prior calculations. Ms. Nichols then raised a
question about the numbers in the construction budget and trying to
reconcile that with respect to the numbers that were presented in the
chart. She also questioned the format in terms of setting forth the
entire contract with the specialty items and suggested, rather, that
these be broken out at the beginning to show the total amount of the
contract subject to the goals.
Ms. Nunnally then reviewed the Arena video production contract which
showed performance towards the same goals of 37% for MBE, 39% for FBE
and 24% for CSB/SBE. Again, a large amount of the contract amount
was a specialty item and therefore not counted in the total goal.
Again, Ms. Nichols asked that the specialty items be shown at the
front and removed prior to the remaining calculations. Ms. Nunnally
indicated she would re-do these charts and show the specialty items
deleted first in her next report. She then reported on the Arena
seating bowl sound system and amplifiers which showed performance,
against the goals of 15%, 7% and 8%, of 34% for MBE contractors, 25%
for FBE contractors and 41% CSB/SBE for contractors of the total nonexempt items.
She next moved to the Ballpark Alteration report and indicated she
needed to talk to Gilbane to get more up to date numbers and
reconcile them against the budget and actual payments. The
preliminary numbers showed 28.6% MBE, 10.7% FBE and 2.6% CSB/SBE.
Again, she indicated that these needed to be reconciled and she will
amend those as well.
Ms. Nichols asked if all of the minority
contractors shown on the list are City of Cleveland certified and
Todd Greathouse indicated some may be certified by the State. They
promised to get that information to Ms. Nichols.
Next, the Board considered the Indians signage. Mr. Greathouse then
discussed the Progressive Field Ballpark Alterations, specifically
the KeyBank light tower signage requested by the Indians. Mr. Wilcox
reminded the Board of the requirements under the Lease for
alterations, including that it would require Gateway approval if
there were any structural issues. Also, Ms. Nichols noted that this
would have to be approved by the Planning Commission and Design
Review. Mr. Greathouse indicated that he was getting an engineering
analysis before we would move forward.
Based on the information before the Board, Ms. Nichols made a motion
to approve the KeyBank signage as shown to the Board subject to City
Planning and Design Review approval and receiving information from
our engineer that this alteration does not impact the structure of
the light towers or the Ballpark. Matt Carroll seconded the motion,
and the motion was unanimously approved.
Next, Brian Kelly gave the financial report. He first reviewed the
operating account which shows beginning cash on January 1, 2015 of
6

 $116,539, with total receipts during the period through January 31st
of $993,545 and total disbursements of $1,038,224 for a cash balance
on January 31st of $71,860. He noted that the expenditures included
payment of property tax and assessments to the Business Improvement
District.
Next, he reviewed the Ballpark capital account which had a beginning
balance of $150,524, total receipts of $100,372, total disbursements
of $129,663 and a cash balance of $121,233 at the end of January.
Mr. Kelly then presented the projections for the 3 months from
February 1 through April 30. The initial cash balance on February 1st
is $71,860, anticipated revenues are $623,073 and total amounts
available for disbursement are $694,933, and with projected
disbursements of $593,105, leaving an account balance of $101,828 at
the end of April.
Next, he reviewed the Major Capital contracts and noted he is keeping
separate accounts for every contract to delineate Major Capital and
Alterations from the normal Gateway activity. The first account he
reviewed was the Quicken Loans Major Capital Account for the 4
outstanding Major Capital contracts showing total receipts of
$13,644,727.40 and disbursements of the same amount leaving a cash
balance at the end of December of $250 in the Major Capital Arena
Account. He then discussed activity in that account from January 1
through January 31 showing approximately $487,000 being received and
disbursed from that account. Also, based on the change order that
was funded by the Cavs, that amount is shown as well as $274,890.95
received and disbursed in January.
Then Mr. Kelly broke down the separate accounts for the Arena Major
Capital, including the video production which is 90% disbursed with a
favorable contract variance of $321,860. The Parsons sound system
contract is 99.7% disbursed. The ANC scoreboard contract is 92.8%
disbursed. The Key Contractors QTV video account is 51% disbursed
and includes a contract change order being paid by the Cavs for the
flooring in the control room as previously noted. Finally, there is
a contract with Robert Dye LLC for the analysis for the Quicken Loan
Arena roofing project which has been 100% disbursed at $27,440.
He then reviewed the Ballpark Alterations accounts showing
$3,923,289.75 being paid into the account by the Indians and all but
$293.20 disbursed through December of 2014.
For the period of
January 2015, DNC Sports has contributed $7,000,000 of vendor payment
and total disbursements from that account are $3,820,697.14 and there
is currently a balance of $3,230,325.96 in the Ballpark Alteration
account.
Mr. Offtermatt then asked how these are going to be recorded in the
audit. It was believed that the Ballpark would treat these as rent.
Also, the audit is expected to commence in April. Mr. Offtermatt
asked Mr. Kelly when the books would be closed. Mr. Kelly indicated
7

 February 2015, subject to insuring all of the information has been
updated.
It was then noted that the next meetings of the Board would be on May
13 and May 27 to consider in particular Major Capital items for the
Ballpark.
Mr. Offtermatt asked for any other questions, but there being none,
Ms. Nichols moved to adjourn the meeting, Mr. Carroll seconded, and
the Board unanimously approved and adjourned the meeting at 4:10 p.m.
APPROVED BY:
SECRETARY-TREASURER
_________________________

8

 