ALCOHOL, DRUG ADDICTION & MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES BOARD OF CUYAHOGA COUNTY
FAITH-BASED OUTREACH COMMITTEE MINUTES
APRIL 3, 2019
Committee Members: Rev. Max Rodas, MA, Committee Chair, Rev. Benjamin F. Gohlstin, Sr., Gwendolyn Howard,
LSW, MSSA, Eugenia Kirkland, LSW, MSSA, CDCA, Rev. Brenda Ware-Abrams, Mary R. Warr, M.Ed.
Absent: None
Board Staff Present: Scott Osiecki, C.E.O., Felicia Harrison, Carol Krajewski, Starlette Sizemore-Rice, Thomas
Williams, Beth Zietlow-DeJesus
1. CALL TO ORDER
Rev. Max Rodas, Committee Chair, called the meeting to order at 4:00 p.m.
2. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
The Faith-Based Outreach Committee minutes of February 6, 2019 were approved as submitted.
3. 2019 FAITH-BASED OUTREACH INITIATIVES: FIRST QUARTER REPORT
Starlette Sizemore-Rice, Director of Special Projects, highlighted accomplishments for the first quarter from each Faithbased Outreach Provider. Overall, the Faith-based Outreach Initiative has served 522 individuals among the areas of
awareness, prevention and outreach. The First Quarter Report is attached to the original minutes stored in the
Executive Unit.
Discussion followed on the protocol for providers who do not submit a progress report as required. Ms. Sizemore-Rice
left messages for the provider in question; however, no response had been received to date. She noted that contract
language does stipulate that funding can be suspended if the required reports are not received. Rev. Gohlstin
suggested efforts continue to reach out to this new provider to discover the circumstances involved.
4. PRESENTATION: LINKING FAITH AND MENTAL HEALTH COMMUNITIES – FAR WEST CENTER
Bob Piovarchy, Faith & Mental Health Programming, noted that the “Bridges” Program focuses on congregations in the
western and southern communities of Cuyahoga County and on clergy who have members with mental health
problems, and/or who want to strengthen their understanding and response to their mental health needs.
The goals of the program are to:
▪ Improve clergy awareness of mental health issues in their ministerial role.
▪ Improve clergy ability to identify and effectively respond to mental health concerns among their members.
▪ Build linkages between the faith community and mental health provider community over shared concerns.
▪ Develop congregation member’s skills to understand mental illness and increase inclusion and connection.
The “Bridges” Program office is based at the Far West Center; however, outreach, training, education, and
programming are provided in the community at the various congregation locations. Multi-church training may occur
either at churches or at the Far West Center.
5. CULTURAL COMPETENCY/PERSONALIZED BEHAVIOR HEALTH CARE SURVEY RESULTS AND
DISCUSSION
Beth Zietlow-DeJesus, Director of External Affairs, presented survey results tabulated from the Cultural Competency
Personalized Behavioral Health Care Breakfast held on Monday, January 28, 2019. Of the 100 attendees, 29 survey
responses were received. Overall, the satisfaction rate was 3.65 stars out of 5.
Regarding the question, “did you leave the breakfast with a better understanding of Cultural Competency/Personalized
Behavioral Health Care?”
- 48.25% - felt they learned a few new things
- 34.48% - Yes, definitely
Page 1

 Faith-based Outreach Committee Minutes

April 3, 2019

Next Step suggestions from survey included: (1) Utilize a Train the Trainer model so that agencies could sustain this
with their staff over the years. To train direct service staff working with clients, the presentation needs to be focused
on application and experiential learning; and (2) Specific training based on population served. The document is
attached to the original minutes stored in the Executive Unit.
Committee Input/Discussion:
- It was suggested that our system needs to take a deeper look at this concept to be able to adjust and
incorporate the model that we now use with components of both the Afrocentric and European models.
- As there are other models available to be infused into our service delivery practice, the Board needs to share
this information and philosophy with our providers.
- For train-the-trainer initiatives, the Board might consider leaning on community providers to help us to quickstart those programs.
6. UPDATES


Radio Show – Ms. Sizemore-Rice noted that Tova Herskovi, Social Worker and Case Worker from Naaleh
Cleveland, appeared on the “Healing the Hurt” radio show in February to share information about the Teen
Mentorship Program. The two-hour show provided a substantial amount of time to share information with the
community; four phone calls were received. Several dates have been scheduled for future radio broadcasts and
topics that occur every other Thursday from 8:00-11:00 p.m. The original broadcast window of 8:00 – 10:00 p.m.
recently changed to 8:00 – 11:00 p.m. Guests are welcome to participate beyond the 2-hour window if they
choose. To date, a schedule has been prepared from April 11 through July 11, 2019. As there are still a few slots
open, interested faith-based providers are encouraged to contact Ms. Sizemore-Rice to sign up.
When featuring a particular faith-based program/provider on the radio broadcast, Ms. Warr suggested inviting
clients who are involved and who are willing to share their experiences with the program.



Evaluation/Outcome Training – Ms. Sizemore-Rice reported that progress is being made in implementing the
use of Devereux Student Strength Assessment (DESSA) and Devereux Adult Resilience Survey (DARS)
Evaluation Tools for Faith-based Outreach Initiatives. Pre and post tests will be administered to ensure that
programs and services are making a difference in people’s lives. Trainings on these evaluation/outcome tools
have been scheduled for faith-based providers. All providers will provide monthly progress reports to Ms.
Sizemore-Rice by the 15th of the month. DESSA and DARS reports are due on a quarterly basis.

7. OLD/NEW BUSINESS
-

Mary Warr referenced an article she read on the benefits of horseback riding as a modality for people suffering
with mental illness. Scott Osiecki, CEO, reported that the Board currently supports this type of therapy as
prescribed for children in our system.

-

Rev. Andrea Jacobs, Director of Spiritual Care at OhioGuidestone, provided a correction to the year-to-date
number published in the 1st quarter report. She noted that 16 clients were served in the last month; the actual
year-to-date total served is 42 individuals.

8. NEXT MEETING DATE - Wednesday, June 5, 2019 at 4:00 p.m.
There being no further business, the meeting adjourned at 4:45 p.m.
Submitted by: Carol Krajewski, Executive Specialist
Approved by: Rev. Max Rodas, MA, Faith-Based Outreach Committee Chair
Page 2

 