ALCOHOL, DRUG ADDICTION AND MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES BOARD OF CUYAHOGA COUNTY
NOMINATING COMMITTEE MINUTES
APRIL 18, 2018
Committee Members Present: Reginald C. Blue, Ph.D., J. Robert Fowler, Ph.D., Rev. Benjamin F. Gohlstin, Sr.,
Pythias Jones, M.D., Harvey A. Snider, Esq. / Absent: Mary M. Step, Ph.D., Ericka L. Thoms
Board Staff Present: Scott Osiecki, C.E.O., Tami Fischer, Carol Krajewski
1. Call to Order
Dr. Reginald Blue, Nominating Committee Chair, called the meeting to order at 3:00 p.m. in the Ohio Room.
2. Approval of Minutes
The minutes of the July 26, 2017 Nominating Committee Meeting were approved as submitted.
3. Committee’s Charge to Nominate Slate of Officers for FY2019-FY2020
Dr. Blue referenced the tentative timeline prepared for the work of the Nominating Committee. He noted that historically
the Nominating Committee has solicited input from Board members regarding their interest in serving as an ADAMHS
Board Officer. A draft memorandum explaining the process and form of intent questions were reviewed; no revisions
were generated. The deadline of Friday, May 4, 2018 for completing and submitting a form of intent was agreed upon.
The timeline/matrix referenced is attached.
According to ADAMHS Board Bylaws, the Nominating Committee’s charge is to announce the recommended Slate of
Officers for a two-year term at the May General Meeting scheduled for May 23, 2018. Dr. Blue further added that this
is the only opportunity, per the Bylaws, to receive nominations from the floor. Discussion followed.
Committee members agreed that:
1) If a nomination is received from the floor, the candidate will be required to complete and submit the form of
intent by the end of the business day on Tuesday, May 29, 2018.
2) If the required form is received by the deadline, the candidate, nominated from the floor, will be added to the
paper ballot to be voted upon at the General Meeting scheduled for June 27, 2018.
The chart showing the record of Board Officer Terms was reviewed. Dr. Blue noted that the current Chairperson and
Vice Chair are not eligible to apply for that same office per the ADAMHS Board Bylaws but are eligible to submit a form
of intent for another Board Officer position.
4. Status of ADAMHS Board Appointment Roster
The Board of Directors Appointment Term Roster was reviewed. Currently, there exists three Board member vacancies.
Dr. Blue asked Mr. Osiecki to touch base with County officials regarding the requested pending interview for a
recommended reappointment.
Discussion followed on next steps to fill appointment vacancies. Consideration will be given to candidates who currently
have completed applications on file at the Board office. Three Nominating Committee members volunteered to serve
as an Interview Team: Harvey Snider, Pythias Jones and Benjamin Gohlstin and tentatively offered to reserve
Thursday morning, April 26th, to conduct interviews of candidates who have submitted applications. Ms. Krajewski was
asked to coordinate the interview process/schedule.
The Nominating Committee is scheduled to meet next on Wednesday, May 16, 2018 at 3:00 p.m. when the agenda’s
main focus will be to determine the recommended FY2019-FY2020 Slate of Officers.
5. Old/New Business – None
There being no further business to discuss, the meeting adjourned at 3:45 p.m.
Submitted by: Carol Krajewski, Executive Specialist
Approved by: Reginald C. Blue, Ph.D., Nominating Committee Chair

 Proposed Timeline for Nomination 8
of Board Officers for FY2019-FY2020
Revised: 4/18/18

Tasks
1. Convene Nominating
Committee Meeting
Consider issuing Form of Intent
to all Board members asking for
interest in serving as a Board
Officer for 2-year term

Implementation Date

Action Steps

Wed., April 18th at 3:00 PM
(prior to F&O Com. Meeting)

Discuss/develop process to
deliberate & recommend a slate of
Board Officers for FY2019-FY2020

Send letters by e-mail & U.S. mail
by April 20th

“Tentative” cut-off date for
responses:
Friday, May 4, 2018

2. Nominating Committee Report
at April General Meeting

Wednesday, April 25, 2018
4:00 PM

Nominating Committee Chair to
explain letter of intent process to full
Board especially for the benefit of
newer Board members. Reiterate
deadline for form of intent replies.

3. Convene Nominating
Committee Meeting in May

Wed., May 16th at 3:00 PM

Review form of intent responses
and determine recommended
Slate of Officers.

4. Announce Recommended
Slate of Board Officers to full
Board

General Meeting: May 23, 2018

Nominating Com. Chair shares
committee’s recommended Slate
of Officers for FY2019-FY2020
FYI: Per Bylaws, nominations “from
the floor” are permitted only at the
May General Meeting.

5. (Optional: For nominations
received “from the floor”,
potential applicants must
complete form of intent and
submit by deadline.)

Deadline for submission of
Form of Intent from nominees
from the floor = Tues., 5/29/18.

If nominee from the floor submits
information by the deadline, the
Nominating Committee will produce
a paper ballot for the General
Meeting vote.

6. Election of Officers
(2-year term) FY2019-FY2020

General Meeting on Wednesday,
June 27, 2018.

Full Board to vote on Board Officers
for FY2019-FY2020.

(prior to Finance & Operations
Committee Meeting)

 