Minutes of the Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees
Wednesday, February 20, 2019

A meeting of the Cuyahoga Arts & Culture (CAC) Board of Trustees was called to order at 4:00 pm at
Neighborhood Connections, 5000 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland.
The roll call showed that Trustees Avsec, Garth, Hanson, Miller and Sherman were present. It was
determined that there was a quorum.
Also in attendance were: CAC staff: Jill Paulsen, interim executive director; Luis Gomez; Meg Harris; Dan
McLaughlin; India Pierre-Ingram; and Jake Sinatra.
1. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion by Trustee Hanson, seconded by Trustee Avsec, to approve the minutes from the December 11,
2018 Board meeting. Discussion: None. Vote: all ayes. The motion carried.
2. EXECUTIVE SESSION
Motion by Trustee Hanson, seconded by Trustee Avsec, to adjourn into executive session to consider the
compensation of CAC’s public employees. Discussion: None. Roll Call Vote: Avsec, aye; Garth, aye;
Hanson, aye; Miller, aye; Sherman, aye. The motion carried.
At 4:06 pm executive session adjourned and the Board resumed the open meeting.
Motion by Trustee Hanson, seconded by Trustee Miller, to approve the personnel report. Discussion: None.
Vote: all ayes. The motion carried.
3. PUBLIC COMMENT ON MEETING AGENDA ITEMS
There were no public comments on the meeting agenda items.
4. EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR’S REPORT
Ms. Paulsen thanked everyone for joining her and the Board. Ms. Paulsen’s remarks can be found here.
5. CONNECT WITH CULTURE
Neighborhood Connections and LatinUS Theatre each offered brief presentations about their work.

 6. BOARD ACTION - Grantmaking
Approval of Grants: CPCP Learning Lab Grants
Mr. Sinatra presented an update on the CPCP Learning Lab program. Mr. Sinatra recommended the Board
approve a slate of 12 grants to Cuyahoga-County nonprofits to support 12 Civic Practice projects. The total
investment will be in the amount of $90,000 ($7,500 per project). All of the nonprofit organizations are
existing grant recipients (vetted through CAC’s Project Support program).
Motion by Trustee Avsec, seconded by Trustee Miller, to approve 12 grants (below) to support 12 cocreated Civic Practice Projects with local artists.
Organization

Artist Partner

Project

Grant

1

Hispanic Alliance

Will Sanchez

Latinx Arts & Culture of Hispanic Alliance
(community engagement and public art)

$7,500

2

FutureHeights

Tom Masaveg

Cedar Lee Mini-Park Placemaking Project
(connecting the community to nature to transform a
public space)

$7,500

3

The Hummingbird
Project (Cleveland
Seed Bank)

Gina
Washington

Seed to Seed (creating a mobile art piece / resource
to clean seeds, culminating in community
gatherings)

$7,500

4

Mt. Pleasant NOW

Mr. Soul

Mt. Pleasant Asomdwee Arts (community peace
mural inside Mt. Pleasant NOW)

$7,500

5

Lexington-Bell
Community Center

Archie Green

My Violin Weighs a Ton: A Hip-Hop Orchestra
(interactive music education and culminating concert
with Lexington-Bell students)

$7,500

6

Burten, Bell, Carr
Development, Inc.

Michele
Crawford

Kinsman/Central Neighborhood Messaging and
Branding (strategy for public art to brand the
neighborhoods and design positive messaging)

$7,500

$7,500

7

FrontLine Service

Oluremi Oliver

Creating Community by Hearing Each Other
(storytelling circles in a safe, trauma-informed,
space)

8

FrontLine Service

Elaine Hullihen

Stitching the Fabric of Community with
Movement and Art (sensitive movement workshops
resulting in the creation of a group visual art piece)

$7,500

9

Campus District
Inc.

Gary Williams

Prospect Avenue Bridge Project (public
beautification and community building process)

$7,500

10

MidTown
Cleveland

Lexy Lattimore

MidTown Community Ballet (inter-generational
history sharing and performance)

$7,500

 11

Shaker Heights
Development Corp.

Kenya Woods

Community Building Through Dance (exploration
of dance to reinforce Van Aken District as an
equitable and inclusive gathering place)

$7,500

12

Greater Cleveland
Neighborhood
Centers Association

Isabel AxonSanchez

P4SS Community Art Connection (arts exploration
for students and families, resulting in a community
project)

$7,500

Total

$90,000

The total investment will be in the amount of $90,000 ($7,500 per project). As part of the Support for
Artists grant program, at least $4,500 of each grant will fund the partner artist’s fee and expenses.
Discussion: None. Vote: all ayes. The motion carried.
Approval of Grants: ioby Grant
Mr. McLaughlin provided background information and a recommendation for the Board to approve a
$60,000 grant to ioby for a match-fund that will support resident-led arts and culture projects throughout
Cuyahoga County. Mr. McLaughlin stated that this work stems from our 2016 community-wide planning
process and is accounted for in the 2019 budget.
Motion by Trustee Miller, seconded by Trustee Hanson, to approve a $60,000 grant to ioby for a matchfund that will support resident-led arts and culture projects throughout Cuyahoga County. Discussion:
None. Vote – Ayes: Avsec, Hanson, Miller, Sherman. Nays: None. Abstain: Garth. The motion carried.
6. FINANCE REPORT
Ms. Harris’ report can be found here.
7. BOARD ACTION – Finance and General Business

Approval of Updated Credit Card Policy
Ms. Harris recommended that the Board take action to name herself, director of administration, as the Fiscal
Officer’s designee. Ms. Harris stated that given the scope of her duties and particularly in light of the
required new Credit Card Policy, this would allow CAC’s office to continue to operate in an efficient
manner.
Motion by Trustee Hanson, seconded by Miller, to approve Meg Harris as the Fiscal Officer’s designee for
Cuyahoga Arts & Culture. Discussion: None. Vote: All ayes. The motion carried.
Ms. Harris stated updates to the Credit Card Policy are a result of and based on the House Bill 312 which
established internal control models for political subdivisions which utilize a credit card account.
Motion by Trustee Miller, seconded by Hanson, to approve the following Credit Card Policy and
accompanying Credit Card Responsibility and Use Procedures. Discussion: None. Vote: All ayes. The
motion carried.

 8. Executive Director Search
CAC Trustee Gary Hanson updated the board on the executive director search process. He reported the
search team is narrowing down a list of highly qualified candidates from about 50 applicants and believed
the team would have a substantive update in eight or nine weeks.
9. PUBLIC COMMENT
There were no public comments.
The next meeting will be held at 4:00 pm on Wednesday, April 24, 2019 at The Dealership, 3558 Lee Road,
Shaker Heights, OH 44120
10. ADJOURNMENT
Motion by Trustee Avsec, seconded by Trustee Miller, to adjourn the meeting. Discussion: None. Vote: all
ayes. The motion carried. The meeting was adjourned at 4:45 pm.

Charna Sherman, President, Board of Trustees
Attest:
Gwendolyn Garth, Secretary, Board of Trustees

 