THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
REPORT OF THE PRESIDENT AND CEO
TO THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
REGULAR MEETING OF MAY 22, 2019

Executive














Cuyahoga County Council unanimously approved a three-year, $42 million contract with MetroHe
oversee all health care in the county jails. The process of hiring and onboarding 142 employees (
is well underway, which includes clinical and administrative leadership positions. These new hire
MetroHealth employees and will attend Hospital Orientation along with clinical orientations.
MetroHealth’s historical groundbreaking was held on Monday, April 15, 2019. MetroHealth forma
ground on our new 11-floor hospital. This historic milestone was celebrated with a ceremonial
groundbreaking event held at MetroHealth’s Main Campus. Two hundred people attended the eve
including hospital leadership, local government officials and community stakeholders. The cerem
included remarks by Dr. Akram Boutros, Senator Sherrod Brown, Senator Rob Portman (video), M
Jackson and County Executive Armond Budish. The new hospital is expected to open in 2023.
th
The celebration continued the entire week of
for
April
all 15
employees with special pop-up events that
included opportunities to pose with construction props and take pictures in front of the new hosp
backdrop; displays of the new hospital renderings were available to view and the Transformation
Office of Sustainability staff were available to answer questions. All employees will receive a com
lapel pin featuring a rendering of the new hospital and a specially designed t-shirt by GV Art + D
images of the new hospital, Life Flight and Cleveland landmarks.

Attorney Vanessa L. Whiting has been elected Chair of the MetroHealth Board of Trustees. She is
African American to lead the Board. Ms. Whiting chairs the Board’s Diversity and Inclusion Comm
supports the System’s commitment to diversity and inclusion. She was named Black Professiona
for 2019 by the Black Professional Association Charitable Foundation.
MetroHealth has increased emphasis on building a diverse and inclusive work environment. We a
launching a system-wide Culture, Rewards and Recognition Survey this summer, and we are con
employee focus groups now to gain insights into our culture.
Presented MetroHealth’s vision for the future to Fifth Third Bank’s leaders.
Participated as a panelist providing updates and information on MetroHealth’s Transformation to
invited guests sponsored by The MetroHealth Foundation.
Provided the keynote speech for Baldwin Wallace University’s Commencement ceremony on May
Over 700 students graduated with a bachelor’s or master’s degree.
MetroHealth is also proud to acknowledge 10 employees who graduated from MetroHealth’s inau
of the MetroHealth/Baldwin Wallace MPH program. The partnership with MetroHealth and Baldwin
provides employees the opportunity to earn a Master of Public Health degree right on MetroHealt
campus. Classes meet every other weekend in fall and spring with a condensed schedule during

 




MetroHealth’s first Walk of Honor took place in April. The Walk of Honor is a ceremony with staff
respect to a patient who has chosen to donate his or her organs. Physicians, nurses, social worke
Environmental Services staff and others lined the hallway of the ICU to provide a solemn and em
off to the patient and their family. It also provides closure for the caregivers. The patient was tran
Lifebanc’s donor care center in preparation for organ donation. The Walk of Honor was organized
Hannu, Associate Chief Nursing Officer for Hospital Nursing, Jenny Koss, Lifebanc Coordinator, an
interdisciplinary Donor Council. April was Donate Life month, which was established to encourag
to register as organ, eye and tissue donors and to celebrate those that have saved lives through
donation.
Kevin Kilgore, PhD, staff scientist in the departments of Orthopedics and Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation (PM&R), was awarded a $600,000 3-year grant from the Craig H. Neilsen Foundatio
develop an implanted blood pressure (BP) sensor for person with spinal cord injury.
I’d like to recognize Dr. Frits van der Kuyp. When Dr. van der Kuyp started working here in 1969,
most iconic buildings in MetroHealth’s history wasn’t even open. “I built the Towers,” he jokes. N
witnessing our Transformation. Dr. van der Kuyp, former director of the Tuberculosis Program, has
part of the MetroHealth community for 50 years! Although he officially retired a few years ago, y
find him in the TB clinic a couple of Wednesdays a month, reviewing cases and attending confere
colleague, Dr. Curley states, “Dr. van der Kuyp has been a national leader in the care of tuberculo
participated in numerous public health trials that later established the standard of care for both t
treatment and prevention of tuberculosis.”

Chief of Staff
Department of Public Safety





Thirty (30) new body armor vests have been ordered. MetroHealth will be reimbursed for 75 perc
cost through the Ohio Law Enforcement Body Armor Program.
In conjunction with
the Cuyahoga
CountySheriff’sOffice Principal Protection
Team, members
of the
MetroHealth Police Department provided protection at the MetroHealth Groundbreaking Ce
occurred on Aprilth.15
The event was deemed a success and no incidents were reported.
Three (3) officers were sent to Field Training Officer school and one (1) attended an Evidence Tra
Two (2) attended training in De-escalation techniques and use of force. All our officers will receiv
Our department will be conducting joint training with the FBI in active assailant training.

Office of Patient Experience

Patient Experience System Goal – Likelihood to Recommend – Stretch Performance Achieved, March

Arts in Medicine
 Arts in Medicine, in partnership with the MetroHealthy Employee Wellness Program, launched an
Health Challenge. The 233 employees who registered and completed the challenge were eligible
MetroHealthy points. The challenge raised awareness of the benefits participation in the arts pro
overall health and well-being and provided additional opportunities throughout the System for em
engage in the arts.
 The Department of Arts in Medicine has expanded Art Therapy services in the community throug
provided by the State of Ohio for victims of crime. Five hundred ninety-six client contacts were re
through the first two quarters of the 2018-19 grant cycle. Individual and group sessions are prov
LGBT Center of Greater Cleveland, the YWCA of Greater Cleveland, Malachi Center, MetroHealth’
community via Compass Services and to students of School Health Program Partner Schools Harv
Wraparound School and Lincoln-West School of Science and Health.
Page 2 of 12

 Language Access Services
 The department has created a charting documentation report that identifies, by service line, the
verbal interpretation usage for those patients who speak a language other than English and need
interpreter. Overall, 53 percent of the specific patient population has related EMR documentation
expectation is to increase interpreter documentation awareness and improved documentation (v
phrases and flow sheets). Language Access Services offers in-services to those areas needing ad
support.
Patient Experience and Engagement
 Engaging the Patient, Family and Community to Improve Care for Transgender Pediatric Patients
presented by Margie Diaz, Manager, Health Equity; Elizabeth Clegg, Senior Market Research Asso
Jennifer Lastic, Manager, Patient-Centered Care and Shannon Scott-Miller, Patient and Family Adv
The Beryl Institute Patient Experience 2019, in Dallas, Texas, April 2019.
 Leadership rounding -- an industry best practice: a 3-month leadership rounding pilot launched in
campus inpatient units on May 3, 2019, with the purpose of rounding on employees to learn abo
clinical environment, look for opportunities to connect with staff, improve processes and assess r
needs.
Volunteer Services
 Forty-four new Infant Comforter volunteers were trained in March and April, bringing the total nu
Infant Comforters to 120. Infant Comforters provide nurturing support in the NICU daily from 6:30
midnight. Twenty-two of the volunteers are also MetroHealth employees.
Faith Community Outreach/Pastoral Care







Provided spiritual wellness services that included Ash Wednesday, (700 patients and staff partici
for the Soul provided at five units, and Good Friday services offered at Main, Prentiss and OBC.
Pastoral Care blessed 1,000 hands during Nurse’s Week (May 6-10) through the office’s Blessing
Ministry.
Offered in-services to Psychiatry Residents on “Spiritual Care Overview” and “Spiritual Distress.”
Trauma Recovery Services joined Faith Community Outreach to launch the Near West Trauma He
consisting of six congregations with five additional congregations in the orientation process. Met
now has two Trauma Healing Circles (including nine congregations from the Mt. Pleasant/Southea
designed to work collaboratively to provide support services to individuals and families impacted
and toxic stress. The Healing Circles are part of the effort by MetroHealth’s Faith Community Out
provide trauma awareness services to 100 churches by 2020 and to plant Trauma Care Teams in
of 50 churches in collaboration with the Trauma Institute. To date, the effort has provided suppor
families and 60 individuals resulting in linkages to services, housing and employment while prov
$2,000 in utility assistance in the first 5 months. Six (6) graduating seniors at John Adams High S
been adopted by churches with one student recently shedding tears at a Healing Circle meeting
participating church paid her $300 Senior Fees.
Five churches joined a planning committee to work with MetroHealth to develop hypertension- an
prevention programming for men. The concept was influenced by the death of John Singleton, an
film director known for movies such as Boyz In the Hood and Poetic Justice. Singleton, age 51, die
stroke caused by his battle with hypertension.

External Affairs

Government Relations
 On April 24, 2019, participated in the United Way of Greater Cleveland’s policy meeting featuring
States Congressman Anthony Gonzalez. He discussed his health, social services and workforce p
Page 3 of 12

 the group. The congressman invited area employers and agencies to partner with his office to ad
policy to benefit the region.
 MetroHealth continues to partner with America’s Essential Hospitals and other national alliances
against Medicare and Medicaid payment cuts that threaten safety net systems’ mission and pati
plans.
 Collaborating with the executive and legislative branches of government to advocate for state bu
provisions to preserve Medicaid payments and to help the health system protect its research and
interests.
 Government Relations staff attended the EcoDistrict workshop in Pittsburgh to learn more about
resilient, sustainable and equitable communities in partnership with public, private and commun
 Partnered with Councilwoman Jasmin Santana and Turner Construction to advance home revitaliz
efforts within the Clark Fulton neighborhood.
Community Engagement
 Presented latest Transformation information and addressed questions around Transformation and
MetroHealth to the Tremont North Block Club.
 Working to get on the calendars for mid to late summer block club and select neighborhood mee
provide in-person updates following the MetroHealth annual meeting.
 Rolled out community calendar to MetroHealth group including chiefs, ambulatory triad and site
service line leaders, Foundation and other targeted internal partners.
 MetroHealth was the presenting sponsor for Cleveland Rape Crisis Center’s Faces of Change lunc
attended by more than 1,000 business and civic leaders on April 17, 2019.
Marketing & Shared Services
 MetroHealth’s patient newsletter, SimplyWell magazine, won a Silver Award in Healthcare Marke
th
Report’s 36
Annual Healthcare Advertising Awards in the “External Publications” category. This y
than 4,000 entries were received, making the awards the largest health care advertising awards
and one of the 10 largest of all advertising awards.
Communications
 We received overwhelmingly positive coverage of our April 15, 2019, groundbreaking with nearly
media outlet attending the event. Social media response was just as impressive. All groundbreak
reached 25,000 Facebook users and led to 1,670 Instagram engagements and 9,392 impressions
users.
 The MetroHealth Communications team worked with the Cleveland International Film Festival, th
MetroHealth Office of Opioid Safety and Recovery Resources to distribute 25 Narcan kits, along w
educating filmgoers on how to use them, after the Cleveland International Film Festival screening
documentary film “America Relapse.”
 The Communications team also helped Emergency Department (ED) social workers to create an
social media avenue to reach family members of ED patients who are seriously injured or who pa
prevents social workers from having to use their personal social media information.
Transformation Communications
 Worked with Turner Construction on the design of a replacement garage banner which was instal
 Worked with Turner Construction to coordinate design and installment of construction site fence
Scranton Road in time for groundbreaking. Also working with GV Art + Design to coordinate desig
th
installment of mural along West
Street
25 which should be in place by mid-May.
 Produced and posted several construction/safety related pieces for internal audience.
Facilities Management


There were several electrical outages during the last two months, most due to unusually strong w
fallen trees on power lines. We also had to make some repairs to two of our generators at the ma

Page 4 of 12

 







A considerable amount of plumbing and wall work had to be done both inside and outside patien
the Towers to remove sinks that were not in compliance with current codes. To date, only four roo
to complete.
Facilities Projects completed in 2019: 51; projects still in process: 28.
Capital Projects initiated in 2019: 29 ($1,556,894); projects still in development for 2019: 7 ($60
Our Facilities Management team has been working with the construction manager on the new ho
addressing utility and egress issues as excavation and placement of caissons work occasionally i
hospital operations.
Facilities Management managers and the HGA engineers have started to educate our staff on the
operation of the new central utility plant, otherwise known as the CUP, which will be vastly more
than our current systems.
Tom Moenich has been hired as our Director of Facilities Construction and is actively building his
necessary documents and processes, as well as working on several major projects.
There are currently four manager vacancies and four skilled trade vacancies in this department;
in process. The vacancy rate is up slightly at 7 percent. Three other skilled trades workers are ex
retire within the next three months.

Trauma Recovery Services













Contract language is in negotiation between the Institute and Frontline Service. This partnership
to equip MetroHealth with enhanced crisis response capabilities, design and function of the Traum
Response System, and educational platforms imbedded into the community at large for the Com
Trauma Institute.
We continue to seek an academic affiliate for the Institute, completing an environmental scan to
prepare for the RFP process. To date, informational meetings were held with Ohio University. Upc
meetings with John Carrol and Baldwin Wallace are planned to ensure we best understand the sc
academic clime and the value-added to the Institute.
A search for a Program Adviser continues. Candidates are in the interview stage.
The first Community Trauma Institute collaborative event was held on May 1, 2019. A screening
documentary, Resilience: The Biology of Trauma and the Science of Hope, was offered fol
discussion with community representation from Peacemakers, Eastside faith organizations, Metro
Psychology, community-based social service agencies and neighboring municipalities. Post-even
found 95 percent likely to attend future meetings and 100 percent found the information helpful
We received three additional educational opportunities and one funding opportunity as a result, i
the entire City of Lakewood.
Our first workshops from the Community Trauma Institute are scheduled to begin in June with the
Lyndhurst and South Euclid and Lyndhurst Schools. We are creating consultation proposals for Jas
Santana and Ward 14, the city of Lakewood and Peacemakers Alliance.
Our Trauma Recovery Center has served over 550 patients and provided 1,850 direct services, in
nearly 250 trauma-focused counseling sessions. Since January, we have provided 231 Volunteer
through the Trauma Survivors Network and have been showcased in the following media outlets:
 https://www.wkyc.com/article/life/he-was-given-just-5-chances-of-survival-after-a-horrifying
now-this-former-avon-officer-is-inspiring-others/95-1051d455-87cb-4145-8d8b-e2964161f
and a feature article on EssentialHospitals.org
 https://essentialhospitals.org/tackling-trauma-together-trauma-survivors-network-spreadshospitals-nationwide/
National Trauma Survivors Day was May 15, 2019. Our celebration this year featured Dr. Akram B
the keynote speaker, and we presented our American Hospital Association’s Award for Best Volun
Page 5 of 12

 

Program In-Service in the nation to the hospital and volunteers at that time. Terminal Tower was
teal in honor of trauma survivors throughout our city.
th
Sarah Hendrickson presented at
Annual
the 6 Trauma-Informed Care Summit in Columbus, Ohio on May
2019, alongside industry leaders on the subject, including Dr. Vince Felitti (the physician who dis
Adverse Childhood Experiences as a profound contribution to quality of life, overall health, and lo

System Dyad






Dr. Richard Blinkhorn, new Chair of the Department of Medicine, officially took his post on May 13
are excited to welcome him back to the MetroHealth family in this important role.
Dr. David Crowe was named Chair of the Department of Dermatology. He has served as Interim C
November 2016, and accepted this permanent role in April of this year.
Dr. Ben Roitberg was named Medical Administrator of the Neuromusculoskeletal Service Line. He
this service line with Shailaja Dunn, Neuromusculoskeletal Service Line Administrator.
Dr. Bernard Boulanger attended the Becker’s Health IT, Clinical Leadership and Pharmacy confere
Chicago May 2nd – 4th as a panelist.
Dr. Bernard Boulanger participated in a panel discussion following a film screening of ‘To Err is Hu
part of MetroHealth’s Nurse’s Week on May 9, 2019.

Hospital Operations


Completed a successful move of inpatient dialysis from 9C to 5A, allowing for an improved physi
environment, private rooms and increased efficiency.
 Dr. Michael Lewis was named Medical Director for the Capacity Command Center, and Gigi Hubb
named its Operations Manager.
Emergency Preparedness
 MetroHealth, as Ohio’s only Ebola Treatment Facility, participated in a disaster table-top exercise
partnership with the Ohio Department of Health (ODH) and the Great Lakes Health Partnership R
simulate the transport logistics needed to safely transport a highly-infectious patient from Metro
our Regional Ebola Treatment Facility in Minnesota. While awaiting the recommendations from th
Action Report, an immediately realized benefit was establishing and reinforcing regional and inte
partnerships.
 The next leadership cohort has completed prerequisites and has been accepted for advanced dis
response and management training at the Department of Homeland Security’s Center for Domes
Preparedness in Anniston, Alabama. This week-long training focuses on preparing health care lea
make critical decisions in all-hazards disaster emergency preparedness activities. Responders lea
disaster-planning response and recovery functions through a didactic format that is then applied
tabletop exercise and a two-day functional exercise to test and reinforce new skills and learning.
 The MetroHealth System continues to contribute to national disaster resilience by renewing its co
as a participating health care system in the National Disaster Medical System (NDMS). The NDMS
federally coordinated health care system and partnership of the United States Departments of H
Human Services, Homeland Security, Defense and Veterans Affairs. The purpose of the NDMS is
state, local, tribal and territorial authorities following disasters and emergencies by supplementi
and medical systems and response capabilities. NDMS would also support the military and the D
Veterans Affairs health care systems in caring for combat casualties, should requirements excee
capacity.
Environmental Services, Logistics, and Textile Care
 To improve our parking operations, Logistics has begun its transition to Towne Health Parking, ou
vendor. Weekly transition meetings were held retrofitting to new equipment, signage and uniform
 A Bonnie Speed cost reduction initiative commenced with fact finding, site visits and multi-depar
coordination of efforts.
Page 6 of 12

 

Environmental Services employees Robert Hammond and Mirjana Sucevic and their Director, Tho
have become Master Trainers for TeamSTEPPS.
 To help manage the quality being delivered to our patients, Environmental Services is using Sma
industry leading software platform that allows for janitorial and facility audits). Room turnover ti
now typically under 20 minutes.
 Thomas Jones has begun working with the Volunteer Department to mentor individuals between
18 and 25 in the community.
Food & Nutrition Services
 MetroHealth’s Food as Medicine Supervisor Ellen McLaughlin, in conjunction with the Greater Cle
Food Bank, hosted a food demonstration in the Outpatient Plaza Café. Its purpose was to teach t
community how to cook with lentils and to provide the participants with the opportunity to taste
dishes.
 Nutrition Services dietitian Annie Walfish received the “You Make a Difference” recognition for he
contributions to patient and peer care. This recognition is part of Patient Experience’s Welcome,
Campaign.
Pharmacy
 Critical Care Clinical Pharmacist Nilam Patel, presented at the 51st Annual American Burn Associ
National Meeting held April 2-5, 2019 on her abstract, “Evaluation of a Weight-Based Enoxaparin
Protocol for Venous Thromboembolism Prophylaxis in Burn Patients.”
 Specialty Pharmacy expanded services for the diabetes population through providing the newest
insulin injectables. Specialty Pharmacy currently fills over 50 percent of all specialty prescription
MetroHealth providers.
 Ohio’s Sexual Assault Forensic Exam (SAFE) Program provides victims of sexual assault HIV proph
medications (taken at home) at no cost to them. MetroHealth Pharmacy has currently filled presc
16 patients in this program since it began.
Radiology
 The Beachwood Mammography Section passed a random ACR image validation survey (locations
randomly and must pick images to submit for a date identified by the ACR). MetroHealth Beachw
achieved a positive rating for the criteria of compression, positioning, exposure level, contrast, s
noise, artifacts and labeling.
 Mammography at our West 150th location achieved ACR reaccreditation for its mammography se
 Radiology volumes are strong and exceeding budget: Cleveland Heights is 12.4 percent over bud
date, Parma is 7.4 percent over budget year-to-date and Brecksville is 5.1 percent over budget y
 For The MetroHealth System, MRI volumes are 5.5 percent over budget year-to-date, and CT volu
percent over budget year-to-date.
Patient Access
 Went live in April 2019 with MyMetro Hand & Upper Extremity optimization that added Plastic Su
the hand and upper extremity scope (additive to the Hand Orthopedic and Physical Medicine &
Rehabilitation specialties).
 Went live in April 2019 with MyMetro Primary Care and Rheumatology optimizations adding more
support technology for schedulers and more reasons for visit to improve scheduling accuracy.
 Primary Care First Call Resolution increased to 79 percent for the month of April 2019, up from 78
last Board reporting.
 New patient scheduling lag reduced to nine days for Hand & Upper Extremity for April 2019, a 47
reduction from 17 days in July 2018.
 New patient scheduling lag reduced to 17 days in Rheumatology, a 62 percent reduction from 45
2018.
 Between Dec 2018 – Apr 2019, five more Telehealth Triage RN’s have obtained specialty certifica
beyond their nursing licensure and job-description requirements. Thirty-two percent of the Telehe
Nursing team now holds specialty certifications in areas such as Ambulatory Care Nursing or Ger
Page 7 of 12

 Service Lines

Adult Health and Wellness
Dental in the community:
 The MetroHealth System’s Department of Dental Medicine served the Twice Blessed Community.
caring dental professionals volunteered their time to educate the community about the importan
health. Our volunteers demonstrated proper tooth brushing techniques, discussed healthy food c
conducted oral health assessments. We have partnered with the Henry Schein Cares Foundation
generously donated toothbrushes and other oral care supplies to be distributed free of charge.
https://metrohealthmiv.sharepoint.com/Pages/People/Dental-Team-Thanked-for-Supporting-Comm
Event.aspx
Behavioral Health:
 Construction for the new offices at Beachwood are underway and set to open July 1, 2019. Expan
bring to Beachwood child psychology and psychiatry in addition to expanded adult counseling, th
medication management services.
 Recovery Resources services embedded in 6B to assist with linkage to post-discharge care.
Awards & Recognition:
 Division of Child & Adolescent psychology attended Society for Pediatric Psychology Annual Conv
New Orleans. Psychology trainees won Diversity Award for their poster presentation.
 WRAP was featured in Cleveland.com highlighting patient success story and program’s success i
recidivism among individuals with mental health diagnoses.
 Lisa Ramirez, PhD, sat on panel for the Collaborative Conversation at the Community Trauma Ins
Trauma Awareness Month event on May 1, 2019.
Primary Care:
 Newly established PRIDE services are available for our patients at the Brecksville Location.
 Established new service for transitioning (young adult) patients from DCFS to Adult Care continui
 Two new Advanced Practice Providers (APRN) joined our MetroHealth team.
Cancer Care
 Lisa Vibbert, BSN, RN, received the Outstanding Achievement in Nursing Education & Professiona
Award for her work with Gynecologic and Surgical Oncology Patients.
 Hematologist/Oncologist Paul Hergenroeder, MD, retired May 1st. We thank him for his service tr
cancer patients with breast and brain malignancies.
 The MetroHealth BREAST/Amigas program will host its next community health fair on Saturday, J
from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the MetroHealth Cancer Center Pavilion/Outpatient Atrium.
Emergency Medicine
 April Emergency Department volumes exceeded targets at all locations with continued growth fo
community ED locations.
 Natasha Meinert joined the organization as Prehospital Center Director. In this newly created pos
Natasha will focus on operations leadership for EMS and Life Flight.
 Metro Life Flight recently expanded operations with a new Critical Care Ground Unit to support pa
transfers in northcentral Ohio.
Neuro-Musculoskeletal
 The Comprehensive Hand and Upper Extremity Program had its official go live on April 24, 2019.
program consists of providers in the Departments of Orthopedics, Plastic Surgery and Physical M
Rehabilitation.
 The following physicians in the Department of Orthopedics have been elected to leadership roles
organizations:
 Heather Vallier MD: President elect for the Orthopedic Trauma Association.
 John Wilber MD: Trauma Expert on the international AO Foundation Board.
Page 8 of 12

  Roger Wilber MD: Chairman of AO Trauma North America.
 Dr. Ben Roitberg was invited to develop the consensus summary about “mobility preserving surg
lumbar spinal stenosis” at the World Federation of Neurosurgical Societies Spine Committee mee
(Belgrade, March 21-23, 2019).
 We will be developing an Advanced Practice Provider fellowship for Neurosciences.
Specialty Care
 Specialty Care would like to welcome Amy Ray, MD, to the Division of Infectious Disease faculty.
 The MOHS Surgical Team has been selected as the 2019 Nursing Excellence Outstanding Achieve
Interprofessional Collaborative Care Award Winner.
Surgery
 Comprehensive Hand Center rolled out with scheduling through NSC.
 Record OR volume for the month of April.
 Successful recruitment of one ENT, two ophthalmologists and two general surgeons.
 Brecksville OR # 4 Buildout planning begun.
Trauma, Critical Care, Burns
 On the 2019 Spring TQIP (Trauma Quality Improvement Program) report, MetroHealth demonstra
mortality rates above average in the first decile at an odds ratio of 0.69, a rate that has continue
on each report since 2016. This report provides a risk-adjusted benchmark for trauma centers ac
United States. Additional improvements from previous reports include rates of ventilator-associat
pneumonia, surgical site infection, unplanned admission to the ICU, and catheter-associated UTI.
Women and Children’s
 Three doctors promoted to Full Professor (Drs. Ghori, Stager and Shekhawat), and one, to Associa
Professor (Dr. Moran) in Pediatrics.
 Karen Sopko AND, RN, from in-patient pediatrics was awarded the “Outstanding Achievement in
Excellence.”
 Kelley Gallagher MSN, RN, Nurse Manager Labor and Delivery was Awarded, “Outstanding Achiev
Nursing Leadership.”
 While the royal baby was born on May 6, 2019, MetroHealth delivered six Cleveland babies who r
royal treatment and will share the same birthday!
Ambulatory Operations
 Three health fairs were held serving almost 300 community members. This brings the total numb
seven this year providing valuable screening and health education to our partners and communi
 The MOHs surgery nursing team in Dermatology won the Outstanding Achievement in Collaborat
Award. It was nominated by our MOHs surgeon, Dr. Thomas Knackstedt.
 Patient check-in through our new self-service kiosks continues to grow across ambulatory. To date
percent of all eligible ambulatory appointments are being checked in via kiosk.
 The use of MyChart, our patient portal, continues to grow. Over 4,700 appointments were schedu
MyChart and an all-time record of 17,654 medical advice requests were facilitated via MyChart.
Nursing


Nurses Week was celebrated May 6-10, 2019. Over 200 nurses were nominated for Nursing Exce
Awards. Winners (and nominees) were recognized at an award ceremony on May 7, 2019, for the
outstanding achievements:
- Career Excellence - Karen Sopko, ADN, RN, Pediatric ICU
- Collaborative Care - MOHS Surgical Team
- Professional Practice -Lisa Vibbert, BSN, RN-BC, Oncology Clinic
- Leadership - Kelley Gallagher, MSN, RN, RNC-OB, C-EFM, IBCLC, Nurse Manager-Labor & Deli
- Quality - Kathleen Glaser, BSN, RN, CNOR, Nurse Educator-Operating Room
- Research & Innovation - Wendy Sarver, PhD, RN, NEA-BC, Interim Director-Nursing Research
- Friend of Nursing - Charles Hopko, Clinical Engineering
Page 9 of 12

 


Other events during the week included receptions and food delivery to off sites, well-being progr
blessing of the hands by Pastoral Care, visits from therapy dogs, presentations by St. Martin de P
School student work-study teams and nursing research day.
Next year, 2020, is designated “Year of the Nurse” by the World Health Organization (WHO). This
th
the 200
anniversary of Florence Nightingale’s birth.

Human Resources/Inclusion & Diversity









Culture, Rewards and Recognition – Focus Groups and 1:1 executive interviews conducted by OC
breakdown and analysis of data currently underway.
 The purpose of the project is threefold: inform the design and development of purpose and pr
develop Employee Value Proposition – “Why MHS is a Great Place to Work”; inform the design
development of a holistic recognition solution; develop a baseline of the MetroHealth culture
support ongoing transformation efforts; measure the progress of relevant culture initiatives.
MetroHealthy - Coordinated MetroHealthy Employee Arts & Wellness Fairs at the main medical ce
OBC in March featuring over 50 vendors representing both internal resources like EAP, Dermatolo
Employee Resource Groups, Office of Sustainability and outside vendors like the YMCA, WW and
Over 800 employees completed their biometric screening requirement for the rewards program a
200 employees completed a skin cancer screening provided by MH Dermatology and bone densi
provided by MH Radiology. In partnership with Arts in Medicine, employees created works of art t
to benefit the Employee Hardship Fund (nearly $500 was raised).
Development and execution/launch of cultural competency training – specific to Bariatric Sensiti
Presented at the 2019 Beryl Institute Patient Experience Conference in Dallas, Texas – “Engaging
Family and Community to Improve Care for Transgender Pediatric Patients.”
Implementation of Inclusion and Diversity programming; including Black History Month, Women’s
Month, Minority Health, MLK Celebration Series, etc.
Planned and executed the 5th Annual Transgender Job Fair, held at MetroHealth on April 6, 2019.

Ethics and Compliance






Actively working on transition of research conflict-of-interest process to Ethics and Compliance.
Compared ethics and compliance program to companies recognized as World’s Most Ethical Com
Established provider-focused committee to address documentation and coding issues.
Continuing comprehensive review and redesign of onboarding and offboarding processes.
Women@Metro co-sponsoring GenderSpeak Workshop with CWRU School of Medicine and Office
Faculty Development and Diversity.

Finance








Craig Richmond will be presenting at the HFMA’s Annual Conference on June 25, 2019. His prese
focused on and titled: “Not Just Surviving but Thriving: Using Innovation and Adaptability to Deliv
Quality, Cost-Effective Care.”
RSM US LLP, the System’s external audit partner, provided its audit results to the Audit Committe
2019. RSM issued an unqualified opinion, with no audit adjustments. The RSM US LLP Partner for
engagement, Lori Kalic, remarked that this was significant achievement given the size and comp
MetroHealth audit.
MetroHealth’s Financial Reporting team is reviewing and documenting all MetroHealth leases. Th
anticipation of the adoption of GASB-87, Leases. This GASB statement is effective with the 2020
results.
The MetroHealth Reimbursement team is partnering with Government Relations to support polici
programs in the State budget, which are beneficial to MetroHealth. Significant programs include
Page 10 of 12

 reauthorization of the Community Investment and Improvement Program, and the Hospital Franc
These programs provide significant funding to support MetroHealth’s outreach programs.
 Financial Planning and Analysis is establishing teams to improve services based upon feedback f
Areas of focus include: training and development, innovation and adding value, optimizing and le
technology, and improving the relevance, quality and timeliness of information, analysis and
communications.
 Enrollment on Wheels RV participated in nine events in April, 2019, servicing 114 community me
Services provided are scheduling of medical clinic appointments, insurance education and assist
financial eligibility. There were five events on the West Side and four on the East Side.
 From January – April 2019, within the RV, we rendered 525 services to our community, seeing 34
Internal Audit
 Internal Audit partnered with the finance function to establish MetroHealth’s Financial Reporting
Committee (“FRDC”). The FRDC has now successfully completed two consecutive quarterly revie
percent response rate and participation from the business and process owners.
 The 2019 Internal Audit plan is underway. Thirteen audits have commenced this quarter. Thirty p
the total planned audits this year will have closer coordination with the Ethics and Compliance te
throughout the planning and reporting process.
 Internal Audit surveys, which are distributed at the end of each project, were used to improve the
audit process and service delivery. The feedback provided resulted in enhancements to 2019 int
procedures that include improved communication, sharing of leading practices, and enhanced st
reporting. The survey process will continue throughout the year.
Enterprise Data Analytics
 With support from Information Systems, the Department of Operations Research and Analytics (D
completed a major software upgrade to the latest version of Tableau to enhance the end-user ex
with new features, to meet the growing capacity needs of MetroHealth’s user base and to enhan
infrastructure of our analytics environment.
 In May 2019, DORA is launching a package of revitalized applications, which provide the surgery
team with insights into current and future operations of the surgery business. These applications
tools previously provided by external organizations, saving MetroHealth nearly $150,000, annual
Enterprise Program Management Office
 The Enterprise Program Management Office is developing a Lean Institute program, which will tra
MetroHealth professionals on the concept of Lean. Lean is a disciplined, statistical-based, data-dr
approach and continuous improvement methodology for eliminating non-value adding expenses
processes throughout the organization to be more efficient.
 Lynn Susi, Project Strategist, was accepted to be an instructor for the MetroHealth – Baldwin Wal
University Master of Public Health program. She will be teaching Introduction to Healthcare Inform
summer.
Information Systems (IS)
 David Fiser, Vice President and Chief Information Officer for MetroHealth, co-hosted a panel discu
Hyland Software for the Northeast Ohio Chief Information Officer (CIO) Forum. The CIO panel disc
focused on strategies for developing and retaining top IT talent.
 IS completed a Business Impact Analysis (BIA) as part of our continuity of operations program to
departments in the event of business disruption. This process includes analysis of information fro
interviews in 63 departments.
Supply Chain
 An End-to-End Redesign of Supply Chain has commenced. The initiative will include all four areas
supply chain operations: purchasing & contracting, OR supply chain, inventory and data integrity
Healthcare Partners has started the transformational supply chain performance improvement wit
analysis of MetroHealth purchasing and contracting.
 An application has been submitted to Premier, Inc., our group-purchasing organization, for its ann
diversity award. Winners will be announced at Premier’s annual Breakthroughs Conference in
Page 11 of 12

 June, 2019. The department’s Supplier Diversity Specialist, Darrell Johnson, has positioned us we
contention for this prestigious annual award.
Foundation and System Philanthropy










MetroHealth’s For All of Us $100 million campaign is moving forward, with $37.3 million of the $4
committed to program and endowment and $7 million committed to capital. The Campaign Cabi
partnership with the boards and staff, anticipate achieving the $50 million by the end of 2019. R
included a generous in-kind contribution from Sunnyside Automotive, Inc. for MetroHealth’s Safe
Program; continued support from the Susan G. Komen Northeast Ohio for the Amigas program; a
generous pledge from new Foundation board member, Ana Rodriguez.
Thank you to the Board and Campaign Cabinet members who attended and brought friends and
to the Transformation Briefing Panel Discussion on April 30: Nick Alexander, Anna Brandt, Linda
Cahoon, Rob Durham, Don Graves, Jennifer Hurd, Bridget and Bernie Moreno, Brian O’Neill, Rob S
Sally Stewart. Over 55 individuals attended to hear a panel discussion, led by Dr. Boutros. You ca
video recording of the discussion at: https://metrohealthcle.sharefile.com/d-s349a834c29f48cb8
From May 28 to June 25, 2019, the Foundation will begin a five-week campaign on 90.3 WCPN to
“For All of Us.” Thirty 15-second spots will air at various times of the day (the majority will air du
morning drive). Based on Nielsen Audio data, the campaign is estimated to be heard by 46,100 i
adults ages 35-64, who will hear the message an average of two times during the five weeks.
Thank you to MHF Board Member Dick Hollington for facilitating the opportunity for MetroHealth
Cleveland Chapter of YPO (formerly the Young Presidents’ Organization) and WPO recently. The Y
attended an informational event on the opioid crisis that featured MetroHealth’s Dr. Joan Papp, D
Office Opioid Safety. More than 100 members of this select group of chief executives and manag
attended the event, giving us an opportunity to also share information with them about the Metr
Transformation.
MHF Board Member, Rachel Ciomcia, along with Kevin Ortner, Director of Transformation Operati
Transition; and Greg Zucca, Director, Economic and Community Transformation, will host Clevela
Leadership Center alumni from 7:30 to 9:30 a.m. Wednesday, May 22, 2019, in the Transformatio
They will provide updates and information on the MetroHealth Transformation and Campaign prio

Page 12 of 12

 