 

 

  
  
 
 

CUYAHOGA COUNTY LAND REUTILIZATION CORPORATION
MINUTES AND ACTIONS OF BOARD OF 

REGULAR QUARTERLY MEETING OF
June 28, 2019

 

 

 

LOCATION: Caxton Building
812 Huron Road E., Suite 830
Cleveland, OH 44115
June 28, 2019; 10:00 A.M. ET
PURPOSE: Regular quarterly meeting to consider the following business:
1. Call to order by the Chair. The regular quarterly meeting of the Cuyahoga County Land Reutilization Corporation

(the was held June 28, 2019 at 812 Huron Road, E., Suite 800, Cleveland, Ohio and called to order at 10:04 am.
Chairman Anthony Brancatelli, Kahlil Seren, Representative of Cuyahoga County Council President Dan Brady, Treasurer of
Cuyahoga County, W. Christopher Murray II, Mayor Michael Summers of the City of Lakewood, Ms. April Urban and Mr.
Nate Kelly were present and constituted a quorum.

2. Approval of the minutes of the March 29, 2019 regular quarterly Meeting. The minutes of the March 29, 2019
meeting were distributed. A motion for approval ofthe minutes was made by Mr. Kelly, seconded by Mayor Summers, and
approved by voice vote without objection.

3. Sta]?r Reports:
0 President?s Report:

0 Status of Acguisitions, Demolitions and Renovations to Date - The has acquired 11,328
properties, demolished 7,715 to date and completed 83 in-house renovations. The has
transacted 1,842 homes through its deed-in-escrow program and direct sales. Currently 4,014
properties are in inventory. Demolitions will continue with allotted funds and will continue into
2020. The is currently working through its back log of demolitions and should be through
by mid-Spring. HB 252 is before the Ohio General Assembly. If this bill is passed it could bring
additional funds for demolition.

Litigation Update The litigation action against the City of Cleveland as it pertains to 
attempt to collect fees in Cuyahoga County Land Reutilization Corporation vs. City of Cleveland, et
al is still pending before the Court. All briefs have been submitted to the Ohio Supreme Caurt in
the case of State of Ohio, ex rel. Elliott G. Feltner v. Cuyahoga County Board of Revision, et al. Oral
argument dates have not been set.

0 Legislation - The is speaking with Senator Dolan as it relates to tweaks and new legislation
to the current land bank laws.

0 Contractor Ugdate - A list of the demolition contractor expenditures and field service provider
expenditures was distributed to the board. As of the date of this meeting, no contractors
have reached the contractor limit for notification to the Board

0 County Housing Program Update and Outreach ?_The has met with Cleveland City
Council, Cuyahoga County Council and community development partners and stakeholders to
discuss the new county plan. The informed community partners of policy changes and
tools available under the County Housing Program and for acquiring properties through
the The is working on developing clear plans and policies for the implementing of
the plan commencing in 2020 and how the funds will be expended. The Board Chair requested
clear guidelines on how the plan will be structured and implemented and how funds will be
dispersed due to competing interests of all municipalities. Mr. Frangos indicated that the 

will be seeking the Board?s guidance later in the year on the aspects of the County Housing
Program.

0 10-year celebration Sponsorship packets are being distributed to those interested in supporting
the 10-year celebration.

0 Fisher House Grand Open House event for the Greater Cleveland Fisher House was held on
Tuesday, June 11, 2019.

Economic Impact ?nouncement The released the results of its $1.4 billion
economic impact study. The well-attended event was held at Cleveland State University, Levin
College of Urban Affairs.

 

0 Mr. William Whitney presented the Report of Chief Operating Officer

0 County Demolition Program Discussion and Update ?The continues its work under the
County Demolition Program. Approximately $3.6 million is allotted for properties in the 
inventory and approximately $4.7 allocated for suburban demolitions. The is awaiting
execution of the agreement for the next round of funds from the County for demolition in the
suburban communities.

0 ?rdest H_it_Funds Discussion and Update The has approximately $8.3 million remaining
in Hardest Hit Funds for 2019. OHFA indicated earlier this year that an additional $3.4 million will
be reallocated to the and recently, that an additional $8 million would be made available
to the The additional funds to be received are allotted for properties which are currently
in the inventory and earmarked for demolition.

0 Presentation of Finances The financial statements were provided to the Board prior to the
meeting and discussed. Mr. Whitney informed the Board that the final DTAC payment from the
County for the year will be received in either November or December of 2019. Mr. Whitney also
noted that the has exceeded the original budgeted amount for legal expenses.

6. Strategic Plan Presentation and Discussion: The draft Strategic Plan for 2020?2025 was provided to the Board prior
to the meeting. The Cobalt Group, Inc., which had undertaken the stakeholder and staff interviews for the plan, facilitated
a Board discussion of the draft Goals and Objectives. leadership indicated that the Board's feedback would be
incorporated into the plan and that it would be updated and presented at the next meeting and implementation would
commence in 2020. Mr. Frangos suggested a possible executive session to initiate a succession planning discussion.

7. Public Comment: No public comment

8. Special Presentation from the Board Chair: Chairman Brancatelli and the Board acknowledged Mr. William
Whitney and his services to the Mr. Whitney will be retiring in the month ofJuly and is recognized for his
contribution to the success of the 

9. Adjournment: There being no more business to come before the meeting, Nate Kelly moved that the meeting be
adjourned. His motion was seconded by Treasurer Murray and the motion carried unanimously. The meeting was
adjourned at approximately 11:59 am.

I hereby certify that the minutes related to the Board of Directors' regular quarterly meeting of June 28, 2019 set forth
above are the minutes approved by the Board of Directors at their meeting of September 27,2019.

F..-

Robert Rink, Secretary
Cuyahoga County Land Reutilization Corporation

 

