THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM BOARD OF TRUSTEES
RESOLUTIONS MAY 23, 2018

RESOLUTION DESCRIPTION

 

Minutes
Approval of Regular Board Meeting Minutes, March 28, 2018

CONSENT AGENDA

Facilities and Space Committee

Approval to Amend the Architectural and Engineering Services Agreement with HGA
Architects and Engineers: LLC as the Master Architect for Campus Transformation

Approval to Amend the Agreement with Turner Construction Company as the
Construction Manager at Risk for Campus Transformation

Approval of the Engagement of Solar Testing Laboratories, Inc. to Provide Materials
Testing Consulting Services for the Campus Transformation

Finance Committee
Approval of an Investment Policy for The MetroHealth System

Medical Staff
Approval of Medical Staff April/May 2018

Additional Resolutions

Finance Committee

Approval of the Expanded Scope of Work and Continued Engagement of Kaufman Hall
as the System?s Financial Adviser

Approval of the Purchase of Certain Capital Equipment

Legal Committee

Approval of Workers? Compensation Insurance Program

Approval of the Retention of Special Counsel for a Litigation Matter
Approval ofClaim Settlement No. 14?23?0814

Other
Af?rmation of the Expenditure of Certain MetroHealth System Funds

RESOLUTION NO.

19197

19198
19199

19200

19201

19202

19203

19204

19205
19206
19207

19208

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes, March 28, 2018



RESOLUTION 19197

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees of The MetroHealth System has been presented the minutes of the
Regular Meeting of March 28, 2018, for approval; and

W1 IEREAS, n0 amendment to these Minutes have been recommended by the Trustees assembled.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Board of Trustees of The MetroHealth System hereby
approves the Minutes of the Meeting of March 28, 2018, as presented.

AYES

NAYS:

ABSENT:

ABSTAINED:

DATE:

Ms. Anderson, Ms. Dee, Mr. P-Iurwitz, Mr. McDonald, Mr. Mennolly, Mr. Moss,
Dr. Silvers

None
Mr. Schneider, Ms. Whiting
None

May 23, 2018

Approval to Amend the Architectural and Engineering Services Agreement with
HGA Architects and. Engineers, LLC as the Master Architect for Campus Transformation



RESOLUTION 19198

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees of The MetroHealth System has been presented a recommendation to
amend the current agreement for architectural and engineering services with HGA Architects and
Engineers, LLC as the Master Architect for the Campus Transformation project (the ?Project?); and

WHEREAS, the Board?s Facilities and Space Committee has reviewed this recommendation and now
recommends its approval.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Board of Trustees of The MetroHealth System hereby
approves the amendment of the agreement with HGA Architects and Engineers, LLC to provide 
additional architectural and engineering services for the Project. The total fees for this additional work
shall not exceed $289,933, for a total amended fee amount not to exceed $30,354,206, to be paid out of
capital funds previously approved through Board Resolution 19088.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, the President and Chief Executive Of?cer or his designees are hereby
authorized to negotiate and execute agreements and other documents consistent with this resolution.

AYES: Ms. Anderson, Ms. Dee, Mr. Hurwitz, Mr. McDonald, Mr. Monnolly, Mr. Moss,
Dr. Silvers

NAYS: None

ABSENT: Mr. Schneider, Ms. Whiting

ABSTAINED: None

DATE: May 23, 2018

Approval to Amend the Agreement with Turner Construction Company as the Construction Manager at
Risk for Campus Transformation



RESOLUTION 19199

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees of The MetroHealth System has been presented a recommendation to
amend the current agreement with Turner Construction Company as the Construction Manager at Risk for
the Campus Transformation project (the ??Project?) to provide for additional pre-construction services to
support the design assist requirements for the Project; and

WHEREAS, the Board?s Facilities and Space Committee has reviewed this recommendation and now
recommends its approval.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Board of Trustees of The MetroHealth System hereby
approves the amendment of the agreement with Turner Construction Company to provide additional pre-
construction services to support the design assist requirements for the Project. The total fees for this
additional work shall not exceed $13,172,825 for a total amended fee amount not to exceed $14,272,825
to be paid out of capital funds previously approved through Board Resolution 19088.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, the President and Chief Executive Of?cer or his designees are hereby
authorized to negotiate and execute agreements and other documents consistent with this resolution.

AYES: Ms. Anderson, Ms. Dee, Mr. Hurwitz, Mr. McDonald, Mr. Monnolly, Mr. Moss,
Dr. Silvers

NAYS: None

ABSENT: Mr. Schneider, Ms. Whiting

ABSTAINED: None

DATE: May 23, 2018

Approval of the Engagement of Solar Testing Laboratories, Inc. to Provide
Materials Testing Consulting Services for the Campus Transformation



RESOLUTION 19200

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees of The MetroHealth System has been presented a recommendation for
the engagement of Solar Testing Laboratories, Inc. to provide material testing consulting services for the
Campus Transformation project (the ??Project?); and

WHEREAS, the Board?s Facilities and Space Committee has reviewed this recommendation and now
recommends its approval.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Board of Trustees of The MetroI-Iealth System hereby
approves the engagement of Solar Testing Laboratories, Inc. to provide material testing consulting
services for the Project for fees based on unit pricing for speci?c categories of anticipated material testing
required for designated building systems as set forth on Exhibit A, not to exceed $1.5 million to be paid
out of capital funds previously approved through Board Resolution 19088.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, the President and Chief Executive Of?cer or his designees are hereby
authorized to negotiate and execute agreements and other documents consistent with this resolution.

AYES: - Ms. Anderson, Ms. Dee, Mr. Hurwitz, Mr. McDonald, Mr. Monnolly, Mr. Moss,
Dr. Silvers

NAYS: None

ABSENT: Mr. Schneider, Ms. Whiting

ABSTAINED: None

DATE: May 23, 2018

Exhibit A
Unit Pricing

The Metm?ealm System Camus Transmmion
Construction Mden?ais resting and inspection Consular: Services
EXHIBITA 50hr Testing Laboratory Fee Scheduie

. . :Solar Testin 
iteration Um! Laboratorie:
.. .. .. .. 
1 Subczade Cmnac?en
Roadways
Excavaicns a. 
. 11111111121211.1111111111 . . . . . . .. 111111 ..
Sungade Concacnon 3 Proof rang $40.111111 .
agregate Bag-3 Sta-hiked 3 Tests per 5003 89.1319 Yards 51158.50
Hm?Staciazed Drainage Base 10 Te-stsper 5900 Square Yarda $3213.80 -
Snuciural 31309011613129 3 .
. ..Sunsiadecowsctim . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 
.Laisty- 83:11:11 i
Pipe Bedding 8. Bear-.113 {1 Tea per 50 LF 0! Trencn $93.00 5
. 11114111 - ., .. .. .. .
.
13mm . 5
011113: 121111111 T131 -1 Test per E'aref?; 1-300 F11: 523111.99
Guam Assurance Test 1 Teafor 13500Fee? Piaced ThatDaj-r . 5115 01) -
Concrete . 1
01111011121111 . .. 1.11.11. . . . 3211.10.
4 QNormar?iesg??Cmcras-z i 
Batch 5 $25 00 
1-911119111111111 8111111117111 . . . . .. .- . 118110
Structural Cant: 
smmTea gPer E1911 Batch 3 5 55 00 
i 01111111111111111111111 . . ., .211111111 0111111111111111111 . .. .. 11100 .
Cmcretef-1110911G111Floor Flow Lemmas . 3
Slab-On-Gmde mzLessThan 01111133531- Size 1 5150.00,
.. .. .54 .00.
?14.11. 411.14.1111114115119141111111 1111.111911111011' .111.1?.11.11511.c.3111.1. S1110
:Structuai Sleek i .
3011911311119 111 . . .. 111111
. 1111.1111111111111 . . . .. 13.111111111111111. 1 1.111111. .. . 1111.114
1 Magnetzc Pamcie fasting . 325% om: Part3! Penetration 111211235115 orLess 5430 C10 
113 'SteeiDecicing .1 i
Puddev?mdS 
111.111.11.11194911911 01.111. .. .. . .
4 nearstuds 
. 5511121 8111118111 . .. . .. .
01111111111111 11.131111. . . . 
- DISpIacememTesH? 35119 $19911" 01 515.105?
5 ?1115119119111 .. 1.71.14.94.41111113811111?1.15111111191d11n 0141.011 81311114184311. 1 $111.00:
MemaneTMmeSSTe-st . 4.1.1111 11111 1.0.05? 11000 
34 2.199520 Fireproo?ng 1
Density Test :1 Test eve-11' 5.1.100 3; Aapied Mammal
.. 7_ .. _41? 90mm j?Gvger Secondar, Bearnperwom SF
5 31111111111111 .
.. 1.8.11.1. 311111111 1111

.



3



ml

 
     
  

 

1.00:1;

   

  
 
  
  

 
 

    

 

    
 



 

         

 

   

 

91494.1t1'81219111411111 . . . .. ..
. PrismTeS! . .1. orWaaArea . .. .. .
17 and Emmces PerTest

130r11mPlerSECassws} . . .

19119110111911?? ,PerP?e

Approval of the Investment Policy for The MetroHcalth System



RESOLUTION 1920]

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees of The MetroHealth System has been presented a recommendation to
approve and adopt the Investment Policy substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, subject to
any format changes which will not change the substantive terms of the Policy and

WHEREAS, the Board?s Finance Committee has reviewed this recommendation and now recommends its
approval.

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, The Board of Trustees of The MetroHealth System hereby
adopts and approves the Investment Policy for The Metrollealth System substantially in the form attached
hereto as Exhibit A, subject to certain format changes which will not change the substantive terms of the
Policy.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, the Investment Committee shall have the authority to make such changes
as it deems appropriate consistent with the objectives and intent of the Policy and which the Committee
shall present to the Board at its next meeting.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, this Policy, as it may be amended from time to time, also will serve as
the Charter for the Investment Committee.

AYES: Ms. Anderson, Ms. Dee, Mr. Hurwitz, Mr. McDonald, Mr. Monnolly, Mr. Moss,
Dr. Silvers

NAYS: None

ABSENT: Mr. Schneider, Ms. Whiting

ABSTAINED: None

DATE: May 23, 2018

ExhibitA
THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM

Investment Policy

Effective Date

Approved by the Cuyahoga County Investment Advisory Committee on the 12th day of April 2018

Purpose

The Board of Trustees of The MetroHealth System is vested by statute with the entire
management and control of the operations of MHS including the investment of MHS funds. The purpose
of this Policy is to establish rules for the management and investment of MHS Qualifying Funds (as
defined herein) which may be invested in accordance with the provisions of Sections 339.06 and 339.061
of the Ohio Revised Code. Capitalized terms used anywhere in this document shail have the meanings
described in the attached Glossary of Terms.

Scope of the investment Policy

This investment Policy (?Policy") appiies to the Board of Trustees and all empioyees and contracted
parties with respect to the investment of all Qualifying Funds.

Standard of Prudence

 

The Board of Trustees, MHS, the Investment Committee and all persons acting within the scope of this
Policy or any other written procedures pertaining to the Investment Portfolio snail discharge their duties in
good faith, and with the care, skill, prudence and diligence under the circumstances then prevailing that a
prudent person acting in like capacity and familiar with such matters wouid use in the conduct of an
enterprise of a like character and with Eike aims as MHS.

Ethics and Conflict of Interest

 

The Board of Trustees, MHS, the investment Committee and all persons acting within the scope of this
Policy or any other written procedures pertaining to the investment Portfolio shall at all times act in a
manner that fully conforms to conflict of interest and ethics policies.

Investment Objectives
MHS will invest Inactive Moneys in a manner that addresses all below:

A. Preserves capital via the Reserve Portfolio, and mitigates unavoidabie volatility and
capital losses over shorter periods through diversity of the asset allocation strategy;

8. Manages risk by diversifying investments, market segments, and investment styles;

C. Maintains adequate liquidity consistent with annual budgeting process and longer?
range projections and as further detailed in this Policy;

D. Maximizes total investment return by an effective asset allocation process that results in
returns in excess of the overail market while avoiding excessive risk; and,

E. Emphasizes tong-term capital growth, excluding contributions and withdrawals.

investment Standards and Duties

The Board of Trustees, the Investment Committee, and all other designated persons acting within the
scope of this Policy shall:

A.

C.

Ensure that management and investment decisions about any individual or group of
assets adhere to the investment Objectives:

Ensure that costs incurred for the investment Portfolio are appropriate and reasonable in
relation to the Investment Portfolio in accordance with applicable law. Costs will be
reviewed against comparables in accordance with reporting as delineated in this Policy.

Reasonabie efforts are to be made to control risk, and investment managers will be
evaluated regularly to ensure that the risk assumed is commensurate with the objectives.

Investment Committee

The Investment Committee is responsible for the oversight of the investment Portfolio as follows:

A.

The Investment Committee shall meet quarterly to advise the Board of Trustees on the
performance of the Investment Portfolio. The Investment Committee shall make available
to the Board of Trustees a Portfolio Report prepared by the investment Advisor, along
with a summary of Investment Portfolio holdings, investment performance results and
comparisons to applicable performance benchmarks.

MHS may retain the services of an Investment Adviser, who must:

1. Be licensed by the Ohio Division of Securities under section 1707.141 of the
Revised Code or be registered with the United States Securities and Exchange
Commission, and have experience in the management of investments of public
funds, especially in the investment of state government investment portfolios; or

2. Be an institution eligible to be a public depository as described in section 135.03
of the Revised Code.

MHS, on the advice of the investment Advisor, and as directed by the investment
Committee, shall manage and administer the ongoing operations of the Investment
Portfolio, inciuding;

Providing for the safekeeping of all documents related to activities in the
Investment Portfolio, including documents confirming the purchase of securities
under any repurchase agreement under this Policy

2. Making records related to the Investment Portfolio available to the Investment
Committee, auditor of state, the County investment Advisory Committee (CIAC),
or an authorized outside auditor at any time, upon request, as to the identity,
market value, and iocation of the document evidencing each security, and that if
the participating institution is MHS's current depository bank, the securities that
are the subject of any repurchase agreement are either delivered to MHS, or held
in trust by the participating institution on behalf of the MHS.

3. Establish and monitor a system of internal controls for the administration and
management of the Investment Portfolio. Such controls shall be designed to
prevent and control losses of MHS's funds arising from fraud, employee error,
misrepresentation by third parties, unanticipated changes in financial market, or
imprudent actions by personnel. The internal controls will address: control of
collusion, separation of duties, separating transaction authority from account and
record keeping, Custodial safekeeping, clear delegation of authority, written

confirmation of telephone transactions, minimizing the number of authorized
investment officials, and documentation of investment transactions.

4. Ensuring that MHS's investment activities are annually reviewed by MHS's then
current external auditor to establish valuations of the Investment Portfolio and to
measure compliance with this Policy, and reporting the audit to the Board of
Trustees.

Investment Portfolio

 

A.

Reserve Portfolio: Per section 339.061 of the Ohio Revised Code, at least twenty?five
per cent of the average amount of MHS's Investment Portfolio over the course of the
preceding fiscal year shall be invested, as a reserve, in securities of the United States
government or of its agencies or instrumentalities, the treasurer of state's Ohio
subdivisions fund, obligations of this state or any political subdivision of this state,
certificates of deposit of any national bank located in this state, written repurchase
agreements with any eligible financial institution in this state that is a member of the
federal reserve system or federal home loan bank, money market funds, commercial
paper maturing within two hundred seventy days or less or Bankers Acceptances
maturing in one hundred eighty days or less that are eligibie for purchase by the federal
reserve system (the "Reserve Portfolio"). Exhibit A attached hereto and made a part
hereof sets forth more detailed investment requirements for this Reserve Portfolio.

Noaneserve Portfolio: Exhibit attached hereto and made a part hereof sets forth more
detailed investment requirements. These investments have a long-term time horizon and
are not needed for operations for at least 7-years. The asset allocation guidelines were
established after assessing the appropriate level of investment risk MHS can accept.

The Board of Trustees, on the advice of the investment advisor and the
recommendations of the Investment Committee, shall:

1. Initially and no less than quarterly identify the Inactive Moneys for the purposes
of the investment Portfolio; and,

2. Subject to the limitations of subsection A of this section, establish and maintain
the Investment Portfolio in accordance with this Policy and the Investment Laws
(Sections 339.06 and 339.061 of the Ohio Revised Code).

Prohibited Investments and Transactions

A.

MHS shall not invest directly in the following:

1. Commodities and Futures Contracts

2. Private Placements

3. Options

4. Real Estate (Except gifts of real estate held until favorable disposition and

excluding and partnerships that may hold real estate investments)

5. Derivative Products (Except as a short-term hedge on gifts of securities of
privately held companies)

6. Precious Metals

7. Interest Only Securities

8. Alternative Investments Hedge Funds
B. MHS shall not engage directly in short sales and margin transactions.

Portfolio Diversification, Allocation and Structure

Asset Allocation Guideline: Investment management of the assets of the System shall be in accordance
with the following asset allocation guideiines:

Asset Class Minimum Maximum
Domestic Equity 0% 30%
international Equity 0% 10%
Fixed Income/Cash and Equivalents 60% 100%

These allocation guidelines are inclusive of the amount of funds determined by MHS to be necessary to
meet current demands on MHS operations (which will be included as Cash and Equivalents) as well the
amount of funds in the Reserve Portfolio (which will be included as Cash and Equivalents). The overall
Investment Portfolio will be kept within the above specified ranges through portfolio rebalancing and
considering cash ?ow activities. Any necessary portfolio rebalancing will be implemented no less than
quarterly to maintain compliance with the asset allocation ranges.

A. initial Investment Plan: At all times MHS will maintain the amount of $300 million as
Designated Funds (Reserve Portfolio). MHS may invest the amount of unrestricted cash
and investments in excess of the Designated Funds in accordance with the following:

 

Asset Class Minimum Maximum
Domestic Equity 0% 100%
international Equity 0% 20%
Fixed Income/Cash and Equivalents 0% 100%

Future excess cash flows generated by MHS will be invested aiong with the initial $100
million to achieve the guidelines provided for in Section A above.

At all times the entire Investment Portfolio (alt Qualifying Funds) will be in compliance
with the asset allocation guideiines provided above. and the limitations on the Reserve
Portfolio.

Investment Brokers and Managers

Investment Advisor(s) wiil establish and maintain a list of eligible brokers, dealers and banks with
which investment transactions can be made. These financial institutions will be selected by
creditworthiness (minimum capital requirement of $10,000,000 and at least five years of operation).
Quaii?ed firms wiil be limited to ?primary" dealers and other dealers that quaiify under Securities and
Exchange Commission Rule 1503-1 (uniform net capital rule). Written procedures wiil describe the
selection process. The System?s Chief Financial Officer and investment advisor will provide additional
oversight to the investment manager(s) activities. The investment advisor shall not be permitted to receive
compensation from any investment manager.

Exhibit A

investment Requirements for the Reserve Portfolio

A. The following classifications of securities and obligations are eligible for such deposit or investment:

1.

United States treasury bills, notes, bonds, or any other obligation or security issued by the United
States treasury, any other obligation guaranteed as to principal or interest by the United States,
or any book entry, zero?coupon United States treasury security that is a direct obligation of the
United States.

Nothing in the classification of eligible securities and obligations set forth in divisions to (11)
of this section shail be construed to authorize any investment in stripped principal or interest
obligations of such eligible securities and obligations.

Bonds, notes, debentures, or any other obligations or securities issued by any federal
government agency or instrumentaiity, including but not limited to, the federal national mortgage
association, federal home loan bank, federal farm credit bank, federal home loan mortgage
corporation, and government nationai mortgage association. Ail federal agency securities shalt be
direct issuances of federal government agencies or instrumentalities.

Time certificates of deposit or savings or deposit accounts, including, but not limited to, passbook
accounts, in any eligible institution mentioned in section 135.32 of the Revised Code;

Bonds and other obiigations of this state or the political subdivisions of this state;

No-load money market mutual funds rated in the highest category at the time of purchase by at
ieast one nationally recognized statistical rating organization, consisting exciusively of obligations
described in division or (2) of this section and repurchase agreements secured by such
obligations, provided that investments in securities described in this division are made only
through eligible institutions mentioned in section 135.32 of the Revised Code;

The Ohio subdivision?s fund as provided in section 135.45 of the Revised Code;

Securities lending agreements with any eligible institution mentioned in section 135.32 of the
Revised Code that is a member of the federai reserve system or federal home loan bank or with
any recognized United States government securities dealer meeting the description in division (I)
of this section, under the terms of which agreements MHS lends securities and the eligible
institution or dealer agrees to simultaneously exchange similar securities or cash, equal value for
equal value.

Securities and cash received as coliaterai for a securities lending agreement are not Inactive
Moneys. The investment of cash collateral received pursuant to a securities tending agreement
may be invested only in instruments specified in this Policy.

Up to forty per cent of this portion of the portfoiio in either of the following investments:

a) Commercial paper notes issued by an entity that is defined in division (D) of section 1705.01
of the Revised Code and that has assets exceeding five hundred dollars, to which
notes all of the following apply:

(1) The notes are rated at the time of purchase in the highest classification estabiished by at
least two nationally recognized statistical rating organizations.

(2) The aggregate value of the notes does not exceed ten per cent of the aggregate value of
the outstanding commercial paper of the issuing corporation.

(3) The notes mature not iater than two hundred seventy days after purchase.

(4) The investment in commercial paper notes of a single issuer shall not exceed in the
aggregate five per cent of interim moneys available for investment at the time of purchase.

b) Bankers acceptances of banks that are insured by the Federal Deposit insurance Corporation
and to which both of the following appiy:

(1) The obligations are eligible for purchase by the federal reserve system.
(2) The obligations mature not later than one hundred eighty days after purchase.

9. Up to fifteen per cent of this portion of the portfolio in notes issued by corporations that are
incorporated under the laws of the United States and that are operating within the United States,
or by depository institutions that are doing business under authority granted by the United States
or any state and that are operating within the United States, provided both of the following apply:

a) The notes are rated in the second highest or higher category by at least two nationally
recognized statistical rating organizations at the time of purchase.

b) The notes mature not later than two years after purchase.

10. Debt interests rated at the time of purchase in the three highest categories by two nationally
recognized statistical rating organizations and issued by foreign nations diplomaticaily recognized
by the United States government. All interest and principal shail be denominated and payable in
United States funds. The investments made under division of this section shall not exceed
in the aggregate one per cent of a county?s total average portfolio.

MHS shall invest under division of this section in a debt interest issued by a foreign nation
only if the debt interest is backed by the fuli faith and credit of that foreign nation, there is no prior
history of default, and the debt interest matures not later than five years after purchase. For
purposes of division of this section, a debt interest is rated in the three highest categories
by two nationally recognized statistical rating organizations if either the debt interest itself or the
issuer of the debt interest is rated, or is implicitly rated, at the time of purchase in the three
highest categories by two nationally recognized statistical rating organizations.

11. A current unpaid or delinquent tax line of credit authorized under division (G) of section 135.341
of the Revised Code, provided that all of the conditions for entering into such a line of credit under
that division are satisfied.

Notwithstanding the classifications listed in section A above, MHS shall not invest any inactive
Moneys in a derivative, as that term is defined in section 135.35 of the Revised Code.

Except as provided in division (D) of this section, any investment made pursuant to this section must
mature within five years from the date of settlement, unless the investment is matched to a specific
obligation or debt of MHS, and the investment is specifically approved by the Board of Trustees.

MHS may aiso enter into a written repurchase agreement with any eligible institution mentioned in
section 135.32 of the Revised Code or any eligible securities dealer pursuant to section 135.35,
division (J) of the Revised Code, under the terms of which agreement MHS purchases and the
eligible institution or dealer agrees unconditionally to repurchase any of the securities listed in
divisions to (5), except letters of credit described in division of section 135.18 of the
Revised Code. The market value of securities subject to an overnight written repurchase agreement
must exceed the principal value of the overnight written repurchase agreement by at least two per
cent. A written repurchase agreement must exceed the principal value of the overnight written
repurchase agreement, by at least two per cent. A written repurchase agreement shail not exceed
thirty days, and the market value of securities subject to a written repurchase agreement must
exceed the principai value of the written repurchase agreement by at least two per cent and be
marked to market daily. All securities purchased pursuant to this division shall be delivered into the

custody of MHS or the qualified custodian of MHS or an agent designated by MHS. A written
repurchase agreement with an eligible securities dealer shall be transacted on a deiivery versus
payment basis. The agreement shall contain the requirement that for each transaction pursuant to
the agreement the participating institution shall provide all of the following information:

The par value of the securities;
2. The type, rate, and maturity date of the securities;
3. A numerical identifier generally accepted in the securities industry that designates the securities.

MHS shail not enter into a written repurchase agreement under the terms of which MHS agrees to
sell securities owned by MHS to a purchaser and agrees with that purchaser to unconditionally
repurchase those securities.

MHS shall not make an investment under this section, unless MHS, at the time of making the
investment, reasonably expects that the investment can be held until its maturity. However, upon the
advice of the investment adviser, securities can be sold prior to maturity for the following reasons: 
avoidance of quality downgrades, 2) avoidance of market decline (due to maturity structure
inappropriateness if interest rates are anticipated to rise), 3) opportunities that provide for advantages
for quality, yield, maturity, or avoidance of interest rate change exposure, or 4) for the purpose of
maintaining adequate liquidity for cash ?ow needs.

MHS shall not pay Inactive Moneys into a fund established by another subdivision, treasurer,
governing board, or investing authority, if that fund was established by the subdivision, treasurer,
governing board, or investing authority for the purpose of investing or depositing the public moneys of
other subdivisions. This division does not apply to the payment of public moneys into either of the
following:

1. The Ohio subdivision?s fund pursuant to division of this section;

2. A fund created solely for the purpose of acquiring, constructing, owning, leasing, or operating
municipal utilities pursuant to the authority provided under section 715.02 of the Revised Code or
Section 4 of Article Ohio Constitution.

For purposes of division (F) of this section, ?subdivision" includes a county.

. The use of leverage, in which MHS uses its current investment assets as collateral for the purpose of
purchasing other assets, is prohibited. The issuance of taxable notes for the purpose of arbitrage is
prohibited. Contracting to sell securities not owned by MHS, for the purpose of purchasing such
securities on the speculation that bond prices will decline, is prohibited.

Any securities, certificates of deposit, deposit accounts, or any other documents evidencing deposits
or investments made under this Policy shall be issued in the name of MHS with MHS as the
designated payee. If any such deposits or investments are registrable either as to principal or interest,
or both, they shall be registered in the name of MHS.

Mechanism and payments:

1. All investments, except for investments in securities described in divisions and (6) of this
section, shall be made only through a member of (Financial Industry Regulatory Authority)
through a bank, savings bank, or savings and loan association regulated by the superintendent of
financial institutions, or through an institution regulated by the comptroller of the currency, federal
deposit insurance corporation, or board of governors of the federal reserve system.

2. Payment for investments shall be made only upon the delivery of securities representing such
investments to MHS, or designee. If the securities transferred are not represented by a certificate,
payment shall be made only upon receipt of confirmation of transfer from the custodian by MHS.

Exhibit 

Investment Requirements for the Non-Reserve Portfolio

Permissible investments within the Reserve Portfolio are allowable within the Non-Reserve Portfolio. in
addition, the following guidelines apply to the Non-Reserve Portfolio:

1. Fixed Income investments

Fixed income investments should emphasize high?quality (on average, the
portfolio should have 888- rating or better) and reasonabie diversification.
Diversification must be maintained and, with the exception of securities
guaranteed by the US. Government, the securities of a single issuer should not
exceed 10% of the market value of the manager?s portfolio.

Permissible Fixed Income Investments

A. Fixed Income Securities



US. Government and Agency Securities

Corporate Notes and Bonds

Mortgage Backed Securities

Preferred Stock

Fixed Income Securities of Foreign Governments and Corporations
GIC Guaranteed Investment Contracts

Fixed income mutual funds or comingled pools

2. Equity Investments

Stocks included in the portfolio should emphasize companies with total market
capitalizations normally exceeding $100 million.

In a separately managed equity account, an individual common stock
commitment at the time of purchase should not represent more than 10% of the
market value of the manager?s portfolio, nor shall a sector group exceed more
than 50%.

For international equity mandates, the manager shall not weight the portfolio
greater than 50% to a single country.

Investments in international equity must be made through mutual funds or
comingled structures to avoid direct exposure on foreign stock exchanges.
Cash equivalents should not exceed 10% of a manager's portfolio and should be
considered temporary.

Permissible Equity investments

A. Equity
1.

2.
3.
4

Securities
Common Stocks, both domestic and international, and REITs (Real Estate
Investment Trusts)
Convertible Notes and Bonds
Convertible Preferred Stocks
Equity mutual funds or comingled pools

GLOSSARY OF TERMS

Any term used but not specificaily defined in this Poiicy shall have the same meaning as that term for the
purposes of the Investment Laws.

American Depository Receipt: A negotiable certificate issued by a domestic bank representing a
specified number of shares (or one share) in a foreign stock that is traded on a domestic exchange.

Bankers Acceptances: Time drafts that a business can order from the bank. The financial institution
promises to pay the exporting firm a specific amount on a specific date, at which time it recoups its money
by debiting the borrower?s account. A banker's acceptance, or BA, works much like a post?dated check,
which is simply an order for a bank to pay a specified party at a later date. The holder may choose to sell
the BA for a discounted price on a secondary market, giving investors a relatively safe, short-term
investment.

Board of Trustees: The Board of County Hospital Trustees of MHS.

Broker-Beater: A person or firm in the business of buying and selling securities, operating as both a
broker and a dealer, depending on the transaction. A brokerage acts as a broker (or agent) when it
executes orders on behalf of clients, whereas it acts as a dealer (or principal) when it trades for its own
account

Covenants: A legally binding term of an agreement between a debt issuer and a debt holder. Covenants
are designed to protect the interests of both parties. Negative or restrictive covenants forbid the issuer
from undertaking certain activities; positive or affirmative covenants require the issuer to meet specific
requirements.

Depository Bank: A for?profit or non?profit financiai organization that takes money from clients and
places it in any of a variety of deposit or investment vehicles for the benefit of both the client and the
organization.

Designated Funds: The amount of $300 million of funds maintained by MHS which shall be invested as
provided in the Portfolio Diversification, Ailocation and Structure section.

Equities: Equities is a term used to mean U.S. domestic equities, as weli as international equities in
which the companies are domiciled outside of the US. and the equity shares are traded on foreign
exchanges. Also included in this category are rights, warrants and issues convertible to the common
stock of these companies. Stocks of non-US. companies (ADRs American Depository Receipts) that
are traded on the major US. exchanges are considered equities for the purpose of this Policy.

Fixed Income: Assets shall be invested in U.S. Treasury/Agency securities, investment grade corporate
bonds and mortgage-backed securities rated 838- (or equivalent) or better. Fixed income securities of
foreign governments and corporations are also permitted.

Inactive Moneys: That portion of Qualifying Funds that is determined not to be necessary to meet MHS's
current demands.

Investment Adviser: The person or entity selected by the Investment Committee to provide investment
advice to MHS in accordance with this Policy and the Investment Laws.

Investment Committee: The Investment Committee is a Subcommittee of the Finance Committee of the
Board of Trustees. established in accordance with the Investment Laws.

Investment Laws: Sections 339.06 and 339.061 of the Ohio Revised Code.

investment Portfolio: All Qualifying Funds which, for purposes of clarity, wiil exciude any funds which do
not fall within the definition of Qualifying Funds, including those identified in paragraph of the definition
of Qualifying Funds.

MHS: The MetroHealth System, a county hospital organized and operated under Chapter 339 of the Ohio
Revised Code located at 2500 MetroHealth Drive, Cteveland, Ohio 44109. Any reference to MHS
includes its management team.

Participating Institution: A specialized financial institution responsible for safeguarding an
organization?s financial assets.

Portfolio Report: A report about current Investment Portfolio detailing:

A. Content of the Investment Portfolio;

B. Ali transactions that affect the Investment Portfolio;

C. Any income received from the Investment Portfolio;

D. Any investment related expenses paid; and,

E. ?The names of any persons or entities working as investment advisors and managers.

Qualifying Funds: Any moneys:

A. Received from MHS operations, including:
1. Money arising from rendering medical services to patients, whether received
from the patient or on behalf of the patient;
2. Fees received, including inpatient and outpatient fees, laboratory and other
procedure fees, physician services; and,
3. All other fees, deposits, charges, receipts, and income received as a result of the

MHS operations and its medical staff; and/or
B. Received through gifts, grants, and other sources of contributed revenue.

C. Qualifying Funds do not include the amount of any monies received from County
appropriations to MHS as a HHS Program Expenditure, reduced by the amount of any
Medicaid shortfall, uncompensated care, community programs, or other eligible
expenditures expressly authorized by County appropriation. The amount of any draws or
transfers to cover Medicaid shortfall, uncompensated care, community programs, or other
eligible expenditures expressly authorized by County appropriation wilt be reflected in
records maintained for the County appropriation and will be available to the County
Investment Advisory Committee in accordance with this Poticy.

Real Estate Investment Trust: A corporation or trust that uses the pooied capital of many investors to
purchase and manage income property and/or mortgage loans.

Reserve Portfolio: Those funds described in investment Portfoiio section A (on page 3) which are
subject to specific investment terms.

10

Approval of Medical Staff 
April/May 2018



RESOLUTION 19202

The following Appointments to The MetroHealth System Medical Staff will be reviewed by
the Committee on March 27, 2018. The appointments will then be reviewed and
accepted by the Medical Executive Committee on April 13, 2018.

 

 

 

 

 

Active

Name Department Division Start Date Source
McLaughlin, Diane, DNP, CNP Neurosurgery Neurocritical Care 4/2/2018 MHMC
Associate

ame Department Division Start Date Source
White, Jecika, CNP Pediatrics 3/28/2018 MHMC
Bioscienti?c

Name Department Division Start Date Source
Khoury, Shireen, MD internal Medicine 3/28/2018 MHMC
Privileged Non-Member

Name Deoartm ent Division Start Date Source
Al?Alao, Bassel, MD Surgery Cardiothoracic 3/28/2018 CCF
Fenoff, Erin, MD Emergency Medicine Life Flight 3/28/2018 MHMC
Howard, Alexandria, MD Family Medicine 3/28/2018 MHMC
Vande Kappelle, Robert, MD Pediatrics Cardiology 3/28/2018 Akron

The following Appointments to The MetroHealth System Medical Staff will be reviewed by
the Committee on May .1, 2018. The appointments will then be reviewed and accepted
by the Medical Executive Committee on May 11, 2018.

 

Associate

Name Deoartm ent Division Start Date Source

Broze, Julie, Medicine Hematology/Oncology 5/2/2018 MHMC

Colvin, Lashara, APRN-CNP 5/2/2018 MHMC, Broadway

Garden, Naima, Medicine Endocrinology 5/2/2018 MHMC, Parma
Broadway

Wilcox, Toni, APRN-CNP Emergency Medicine 5/2/2018 MHMC, Parma
Cleveland Heights,

Brecksville

Privileged Oil-Member

Name Department Division Start Date Source
Do, Brian, DO Radiology 5/2/2018 MHMC
Malcolm, Larissa, Correctional Medicine 5/2/2018 Jail

The following actions to The MetroHealth System Medical Staff will be reviewed by the
Committee on March 27, 2018. The Actions will then be reviewed by the Medical

Resignations

Executive Committee on April 13, 2018.

 

 

 

 

 

Name Department" Division End Date
Baker?Alden, Constance, LISW 
Bartel, Mary, OT, PT 
Colella, Kristen, LISW 1. 
Dayoub, Nael, MD Family Medicine 
Dell, Katherine, MD Medicine Research 
Kanareff, Rita, LPCC 
Hartstein, Jonathan, P'l? 
Neuman, Jonathan, MD Emergency Medicine 4/1 /201 8-R
Robertson, Matthew, MD Radiology 
Tomm, Pamela, OT 
Tyler, Joyce, 0T 
Failed to Reaggoint .

Name Department Division End Date
Bhat, Anand, MD Medicine Hospital Medicine 3/15/2018
Cowan, Dale, MD Medicine Hen?Onc 3/15/2018
Edmiston, Marissa, MD Medicine Internal Medicine 3/15/2018
Garlisi, Andrew, MD Emergency Medicine 3/15/2018
Genkin, Igor, MD Medicine Hem/One 3/15/2018
Hazra, Sandra, MD Medicine Hem/One 3/ 15/2018
Jeromin, Gerald, MD Emergency Medicine 3/15/2018
Jeromin, Jennifer, MD Emergency Medicine 3/15/2018
Kotinsley, Benjamin, MD Radiology 3/ 15/201 8
Piroli, Robert, MD Medicine Radiation Oncology 3/15/2018
Tirodker, Urmila, MD Pediatrics Critical Care 3/ 15/2018

1i, Naveen, MD Medicine Research 3/ 15/2018
Vogelius, Esbcn, MD Radiology 3/ 15/2018
Change in Staff Category

Nan-re From To Date
Catalano, Patrick, MD Active Bioscienti?c 4/2/2018
Leave of Absence

Name Department Division

Berry, Shanail, MD Medicine/Pediatrics

Cydulka, Rita, MD Emergency Medicine

Donohoc, Jeffrey, MD Pediatrics Urology

Forbes, Michael, MD
Lnkens, Thomas, MD
Miller, Bryan, MD
Priebe, Paul, MD

Additional Clinical Privileges

 

Name

Montgomery, Lynda, MD

Pediatrics
Emergency Medicine
Emergency Medicine
Surgery

Privileges Added

Critical Care Medicine

General Surgery

Family Medicine Ob/Gyn Privileges

CC=Contract Complete, Fellowship Complete

R=Resigned
RL?Relocated
RT -Retired

Date
3/1/2018

The following actions to The MetroHealth System Medical Staff will be reviewed by the
Committee on May 1, 2018. The Actions will then be reviewed by the Medical
Executive Committee on May 11, 2018.

Resignations

 

Name Department Division End Date
Bahniwal, Secret, I JISW 
Bruno, Debora, MD Internal Medicine 
Herrera, Nicholas, MD Medicine/Pediatrics Express Care 
Kherani, Kausar, MD Pediatrics 4.07/20] S-R
Koblentz, Leslie, MD Correctional Medicine 4/ 
Stevenson, Aundrea, MD Internal Medicine 4f27/2018-R
Tung, Rebecca, MD Dermatology 

CCZContract Complete, Fellowship Complete

R?Resigned

RL-Relocatcd

RT-Rctired

AYES: Ms. Anderson, Ms. Dee, Mr. Hurwitz, Mr. McDonald, Mr. Mormolly, Mr. Moss, Dr. Silvers
NAYS: None

ABSENT: Mr. Schneider, Ms. Whiting

ABSTAINED: None

DATE: May 23, 2018

Approval of the Expanded Scope of Work and Continued Engagement of Kaufman Hall
as the System?s Financial Adviser



RESOLUTION 19203

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees of The MetroHealth System has been presented a recommendation for
an expanded scope of work and continued onugoing engagement of Kaufman Hall as the System?s
Financial Advisor; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees has reviewed this recommendation and now recommends its approval.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Board of Trustees of The MetroHealth System hereby
approves he expanded scope of work and continued on-going engagement of Kaufman Hall as the
System?s Financial Adviser for the purpose of providing ?nancial planning, advice and guidance related
to ?nancial matters relating to the Transformation, continuing disclosures, credit ratings and performance
improvement opportunities in 2018, for an aggregate fee increase not to exceed $380,000 plus reasonable
out-of-pocket expenses, to be paid out of general operating funds.

Kaufman Hall?s expanded scope of work will focus on performance improvement opportunities and
include, but may not be limited to, the following:

1. Further re?ning MetroHealth?s baseline ?nancial projections to support future investment;

2. Creating an inventory of anticipated strategic capital expenditures and funding sources to support
Metrol?Iealth?s programmatic and transformation plans;

Preparing a capital position funding analysis;

Developing an analysis of strategic capital ?nancial project scenarios;

Facilitating a focused performance improvement assessment of core cost areas;

Conducting core cost operational reviews that include industry benchmarks;

Developing and assessing strategic improvement options;

Assisting in the prioritization of improvement initiatives based on value propositions and



implementation considerations; and
9. Supporting other strategic performance improvement strategic analysis as requested by
MetroHealth management.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, the President and Chief Executive Of?cer, or his designee, is hereby
authorized to negotiate and execute agreements and other documents consistent with this resolution.

AYES: Ms. Anderson, Ms. Dee, Mr. Hurwitz, Mr. McDonald, Mr. Monnolly, Mr. Moss,
Dr. Silvers

NAYS: None

ABSENT: Mr. Schneider, Ms. Whiting

ABSTAINED: None

DATE: May 23, 2018

Approval of the Purchase of Certain Capital Equipment



RESOLUTION 19204

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees of The MetroHealth System has been presented a recommendation for
the purchase of certain capital equipment as listed in Exhibit and

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees has reviewed this recommendation and now recommends its approval.

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, the Board of Trustees of The MetroHealth System hereby
approves the purchase of certain capital equipment as listed in Exhibit A, for costs not to exceed the
amounts shown, to be paid out of available capital funds.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, the President and Chief Executive Of?cer is hereby authorized to
negotiate and execute agreements and other documents consistent with this resolution.

AYES:

NAYS:

ABSENT:

AB STAINED:

DATE:

Ms. Anderson, Ms. Dee, Mr. Hurwitz, Mr. McDonald, Mr. Monnolly, Mr. Moss,
Dr. Silvers

None
Mr. Schneider, Ms. Whiting
None

May 23, 2018

EXHIBIT A

 

 

Item Description Amount

 

 

 

 

Endoscopy surgical. instruments, scopes, displays, cameras and carts $13 00,000

 

 

Approval of Workers? Compensation Insurance Program



RESOLUTION 19205

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees of The Mctrol-lealth System has been presented a recommendation for
a workers? compensation employer?s liability insurance coverage program; and

WHERE-AS, the Board has reviewed this recommendation and now recommends its approval.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Board of Trustees of The Metro] lealth System hereby
approves the purchase of workers? compensation employer?s liability insurance for the policy period of

June 1, 2018, through May 3 l, 2019, and paid out of operating funds, from:

Select Assurance Captive, LLC for coverage of claims in excess of $50,000 with limits of
$1,250,000 at a funding premium not to exceed $723,000; and,

Midwest Employers for coverage of claims in excess of $1,250,000 with limits of
$500,000,000 at a premium not to exceed $177,000.

BE IT FURTHER the President and Chief Executive Of?cer is hereby authorized to
negotiate and execute agreements and other documents consistent with this resolution.

AYES: Ms. Anderson, Ms. Dee, Mr. Hurwitz, Mr. McDonaid, Mr. Monnolly, Mr. Moss,
Dr. Silvers

NAYS: None

ABSENT: Mr. Schneider, Ms. Whiting

ABSTAINED: None

DATE: May 23, 2018

Approval of the Retention of Special Counsel for a Litigation Matter



RESOLUTION l9206

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees of The MetroHealth System has been presented a recommendation for
the engagement of Scott+Seett Attorneys at Law LLP to represent the System in a certain litigation matter
for fees to be paid only out of any recovery awarded to the System from the court in the matter and
capped at eut?ef?peeket expenses plus an amount not to exceed 22.5% of such recovery.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Board of Trustees ofThe Metrol-Iealth System hereby
approves the retention of the above referenced counsel.

BE. IT RESOLVED, the President and Chief Executive Of?cer is hereby authorized to
negotiate and execute agreements and other documents consistent with this resolution.

AYES: Ms. Anderson, Ms. Dee, Mr. Hurwitz, Mr. McDonald, Mr. Monnolly, Mr. Moss,
Dr. Silvers

NAYS: None

ABSENT: Mr. Schneider, Ms. Whiting

None

DATE: May 23, 2018

Approval of Claim Settlement



RESOLUTION 19207

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees of The MetroHealth System has been advised of a certain claim
against The MetroHealth System involving a lawsuit;

WHEREAS, the Board has reviewed this claim with the Chief Legal Of?cer and the Deputy General
Counsel Litigation Risk;

WHEREAS, the Board authorizes and ratifies the settlement of said claim in an amount not to exceed the
maximum limit set forth below:

Claim Identi?cation Maximum Settlement

No. 14~23-0814 $400,000.00

WHEREAS, this authorization does not admit liability but expressly denies the same, and negotiation of a
settlement is authorized only in compromise of a disputed matter and in order to avoid the concerns and
expense of further investigation and litigation.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Board of Trustees of The MetroHealth System hereby
authorizes and rati?es settlement of the claim against the amount set forth above, to he paid from The
Metrol-lealth System Self?Insurance Trust Fund.

Ms. Anderson, Ms. Dee, Mr. l-lurwitz, Mr. McDonald, Mr. Monnolly, Mr. Moss,
Dr. Silvers

NAYS: None

ABSENT: Mr. Schneider, Ms. Whiting

ABSTAINED: None

DATE: May 23, 2018

Af?rmation of the Expenditure of Certain MetroHealth System Funds



RESOLUTION 19208

the Board of Trustees of The Metrol?Iealth System has the entire management and control of
the System?s properties and of all funds used in its operation and the authority to approve the expenditure
of such funds;

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees has reviewed and considered the recommendation of the President and
Chief Executive Of?cer concerning the use of funds received from the Cuyahoga County Board of Health
and Human Services Levy.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Board of Trustees of The MetroHealth System hereby
af?rms that the funds which MetroHealth receives from the Cuyahoga County Health and Human
Services Levy will be segregated from patient care services funds and continue to be deposited in a
separate bank account and such funds will be used exclusively in connection with the care and treatment
ofCuyahoga County residents.

AYES: Ms. Anderson, Ms. Dee, Mr. Hurwitz, Mr. McDonald, Mr. Monnolly, Mr. Moss,

Dr. Silvers
NAYS: None
ABSENT: Mr. Schneider, Ms. Whiting
ABSTATNED: None

DATE: May 23, 2018

