Minutes
RTA Board of Trustees Meeting
9:36 am, October 22, 2019
Board: Clough (Chair), Lucas (Vice Chair), Bibb, Byrne, Joyce, McCall, Moss, Serrano, Welo

Not present: None

Also Present: Astolfi, Barnes, Benford, Bennett, Beveridge, Birdsong, Bridges, Brooks-Williams,
Burney, Caver, Cranford, Dangelo, Davidson, Davis (C), Davis (J), Feliciano, Ferraro, Fields,
Flannery, Garofoli, Gautam, Gibbon, Gray, Hallom, Jaszczak, Johnson, Jones, Keshtkaran, Kirkland,
Krecic, Liptur, Loh, Lyon?Stadler, McGann, McGrady, Miller, Milliron, Mozba, Pickett, Pinkney?Butts,
Ponder, Schipper, Scruggs, Sheriff, Stover, Stocking, Sutula, Swain, Tarka, Taylor, Vukmanic,
Washington, Wilson, Winn, Woodford, Young, Zeller

Mayor Clough called the meeting to order at 9:36 am. The secretary called the roll and reported that nine
(9) board members were present.

The Secretary advised that notice of this meeting has been posted more than twenty?four hours in advance
of the meeting, that the usual notification has been given the news media and other interested persons,
and that all requirements of the Ohio Revised Code and Rules and Bylaws of this Board regarding notice
of meeting have been complied with.

Minutes

Mayor Clough stated that the minutes from the September 10, 2019 Special Board Meeting and
September 24, 2019 Board Meeting had been previously distributed and reviewed and asked whether
there were any additions and/or corrections. There was a roll call for the special meeting. There were
seven (7) ayes and two abstains from Mr. Serrano and Mayor Welo who were not in attendance. They
were approved. The Sept. 24 minutes were also approved.

Invitation for public comment on agenda matters (2 minutes)

Mayor Clough said they are considering changing the time limit for the public to speak. He ask the public
to respect the current time period.

1. Rev. Pam M. Pinknev-Butts Cleveland, OH She congratulated the retirees. She asked for
more information on Petrochoice LLC and requested they not put their waste products in the poor
community. There needs to be more opportunities for people of color, including females at the
table. She ask the stakeholders be more respectful of the Board meetings.

2. George Zeller Cleveland, OH The Greater Cleveland Partnership (GCP) report from the
previous committee meeting, looked mostly at structural issues. The Septemberjob ?gures were
bad. Ohio job figures were negative compared to last year. US. job figures are down. The last
time the numbers were this low was during the great recession. The forecast didn?t speak about
that. Government of?cials in Washington are denying these reports.

Committee Reports

Community Advisory Committee (CAC) Board Liaison Justin Bibb

Over the last few months, they have been working with the CAC to improve the rider experience. Mr. Bibb,
Dr.Caver and Ms. Brirdsong met with CAC regarding their recommendations. Dr. Joseph Sopko presented
the report. They intend to present a report each month. The CAC and their subcommittees are meeting

RTA Board of Trustees
October 22, 2019
Page 2 of 5

They have two areas of concern. Fare evasion tracking and enforcement should consider
impacts to the rider experience and the tradeoff of potential losses in ridership due to enforcement tactics,
such as the Health Line delayed boarding process, which has decreased ridership and the convenience of
the HealthLine. Future technology enhancements such as the proximity cards, to improve fare
enforcement should also allow for the potential to incorporate connections and fare capping for frequent
riders. This should be considered when making decisions for current investment or contracting with
vendors. The Kids Ride Free Program could see expansion. The CAC recommends RTA evaluate
success and identify potential opportunities to increase family and children riding on RTA. Their second
concern is the free WiFi initiative of network upgrades. Communications regarding this service should
focus on the impact to real time tracking of vehicles and navigation and not necessarily on providing free
WiFi, which on its on is not a necessary service for riders, especially those impacted by service cuts and
fare increases.

The CAC request a follow?up conversation about the cost, capability and process of not only improving
GCRTA network but also adding WiFi for customer use on the system. Additionally, CAC request more
information regarding which areas experience high ridership and the potential impact of free WiFi on those
areas. As transit riders, CAC advocates for resources to be allocated by RTA to services that benefit the
rider experience and the organizations as a whole, which would include technological advancements to
allow for future growth and efficient operations. However, free WiFi on it?s on would not be a top priority for
RTA in the opinion of the CAC.

Ad Hoc Paratransit Committee Rev. Lucas, Chair

Rev. Lucas stated that this committee is meeting today. They are making progress on a number of
recommendations that were made. There is a new Director at Paratransit who is bringing energy to the
district. Rev. Lucas also attended the APTA Annual Meeting. Ms. Birdsong was on a panel for new CEOs.
She received positive responses from the attendees. He was proud to be a member of the RTA Board.

He thanked Dr. Caverfor driving him to the conference and assisting with an emergency that happened on
the road during the trip.

Ad Hoc Technology Committee
This is a new committee. Justin Bibb volunteered to be the chair. Mayor Clough asked for one board
member from each appointing authority to let him know if they would be willing to serve on it.

Introduction of New Employees/Promotions

Donald Milliron and Jameson Taylor are the new HR Business Partners. Jarrett Davis is the new
Performance Leader. He was hired through the Management Development Program. He has a master's
in Urban Planning and is currently working on his at TSU.

*Due to the fire alarm going ofii the Board Room was evacuated.

introduction of Resolutions

A. 2019-102 Expressing congratulations to the employees of the Greater
Cleveland Regional Transit Authority who retired during the third quarter of 2019,
the adoption of which was moved by Mayor Welo, seconded by Chief McCall and
approved by unanimous vote.

There were 19 retirees this quarter. Tyree Barnes, Ginger Bridges, Michael
Hallom and Douglas Swain were in attendance.

B. 2019-103 Authorizing Contract No. 2019?1 11 with Petrochoice LLC for the furnishing of
transmission fluid, as specified and as required, for a period of two years in an amount not

RTA Board of Trustees
October 22, 2019
Page 3 of 5

to exceed $197,960.00 (General Fund, Fleet Management Department budget), the
adoption of which was moved by Mr. Serrano, seconded by Chief McCall and approved
by unanimous vote.

Ms. Birdsong added that this is a routine contract. It is needed to maintain the vehicles.

Interim Secretary?Treasurer?s Report

October sales tax was $32,000 higher than in 2018. It's 3.2% lower than the October estimate. YTD
compared to budget it is $2.3 or 1.3% more than expected. Nationally, the employment rate is low, but
the State is still struggling. Consumer con?dence has decreased over recent months. Storefront sales are
negligible compared to 2018, but Internet sales have skyrocketed up 11%. Auto sales are performing
strong compared to 2018, up Passenger fares for September 2019 compared to 2018 is $5 less
due to a timing issue with the Cleveland Metropolitan School District payment of $4.6 contract for
student fares. Negotiations took longer than expected so the payment should be received at the end of
this month or early next month. Compared to actuals, it?s only down $400,000. Average weekday
ridership for September was down Average weekend ridership was down The Pillar Studies will
provide information to counter the trends.

Mayor Welo asked how the decline from people attending sporting playoffs downtown affects ridership.
Dr. Caver said it depends on the length of the time of the sports playoff span. When the teams are doing
well, the ridership de?nitely improves.

General Manager, Chief Executive Of?cer?s Report

There will be a rail shutdown Oct 26 on the Blue and Green Lines east of Tower City. The Waterfront Line
will operate as a shuttle between Tower City and Muny Lot. There will be replacement bus service. The
W. 65th Street Substation project is complete. it will be operational when staff training is completed. The
2020 SFY funding is increasing to $3.6 M, which will be used for the Bus Replacement Program. Typically
RTA spends $20 every year for this program. For SFY 2020 the funding for RTA has not been
determined as a competitive grant program so there is another funding source RTA are applying for.
Funding request were made for eight projects totaling $70 M. These are for extended capital projects
needed for State of Good Repair. Funding request will be submitted this week for four projects totaling
$17.6 M. Staff is awaiting word of other funding for other projects. Staff went to Columbus for the ODOT
TRAC funding meeting to be determine eligibility for the rail car replacement. They are seeking $240 M.
They have identified $108 M. Potential avenues are being sought for the remainder of the balance.
Securing the money is important to ensuring on-time performance and customer satisfaction. There will be
a meeting Oct. 28 to host State Reps, Senators and members of ODOT to talk about funding opportunities.

In response to request from NOBLE for additional public meetings on the system redesign, three meetings
were added. They are at the South Brooklyn Cleveland Public Library tonight, Oct. at the Lakewood
Library Oct. 23 and the Alpha Educational Center Oct. 24. They also plan to meet with downtown business
partners in late October or early November. RTA will have a Rail Rodeo this Saturday. The winners will
represent the RTA at the 2020 APTA Rail conference. RTA will host the 2021 Rail Conference. She
spoke to customers and guest at the Sustainability Conference last week. She looks fonivard to future
discussions with this group regarding rider focus and increasing mobility solutions.

New Business

Mayor Clough asked the Board if they would like to approve the proposed dates for the 2020 Board and
Committee Meetings. Mayor Welo celebrates the Orthodox Christmas on January 7, so she will not be
able to attend committee meetings that day. Chief McCall said to put a TBD place holder for the 2020
retreat. The schedule was approved.

RTA Board of Trustees
October 22, 2019
Page 4 of 5

Questions or comments from the audience (2 minutes)

1.

Rev. Pam M. Pinkney-Butts Cleveland, OH She has witnessed homeless people sleeping in
Winderemere Station. HOPE transportation is a company that could be used when the buses and
rail are down. She requested a meeting with Ms. Birdsong.

Terrv McGradv Cleveland, OH He is a retiree. He believes that oversight was lacking from the
Board over the last 20 years and is the reason the Authority is in the current position. RTA needs
to retain and attract new ridership and to help people get to work, school and appointments. RTA
has cut services and routes, which has affected families. He offered to take the Board on the old
#50 route. lt stopped at a lot of schools and business. When the line was out, it devastated the
people who rode it. It would speak volumes to the community if this line was restored. He invited
the Board to attend the Cleveland Rising Summit.

 

Montel Johnson Richmond Hts, OH He works at RTA in Service Quality. RTA is a great place
to work and has a lot of opportunity for growth. He suggested a rewards program to increase
ridership. This would be good for people who only use the Park Ride for work. With a rewards
program, they may consider using the service more. He asked if the feedback from Service Quality
staff can be considered before making bus purchases. Failed AC and heating equipment and fuel
doors can take the bus out of operation. Buses with windows that open should be purchased.

That way when the AC fails, the windows can be opened.

Emily Liptur Cleveland, OH She is a member of Clevelanders for Public Transit. They are
happy about the bylaw updates. They ask the Board to consider adding a transit rider and transit
operator to the Board. They support term limits for officers, but they support term limits for at?large
members too. Resolutions should be posted online before the meetings for transparency similar to
how minutes are posted online. They support one three?minute public comment section at the
beginning of the meeting for agenda and non?agenda items. They would like to make comments at
committee meetings too to give the public time to comment prior to being brought to the Board.
They would like meetings to be held at different times of the day.

 

James Lamb Cleveland, OH He has spoken on every subject that has been addressed today.
Revenue is lost due to fare boxes not working. He used to ride the #50 bus that was discussed
earlier. It had enough ridership to go from the eastside to the westside. The #58 was put into
service in place of the #50. He would like to schedule a meeting with staff to discuss further. He
requested staff look at all the cuts that have been made. He believes that most of the cuts have
been made on the eastside.

 

Dontez Taylor Cleveland, OH The circulators were assets to the community. Provide?A- Ride
is always late and they are not accommodating. He also supports bringing back the #50 and #25.
Both routes went on the eastside and westside of town.

Dana Beveridqe Cleveland, OH She is with Clevelanders for Public Transit. She invited the
Board and public to their HealthLine Ride Along on Thursday, Oct. 24. They will meet at Public
Square at 5 pm. CPT appreciates the CAC report.

 

George Zeller Cleveland, OH The September U.S. job figures fell to less than four tenths of
The last time this was this low was September 2010 during the great recession. Ohio jobs fell
to This is fewerjobs than a year ago. The Greater Cleveland Partnership (GCP) report
didn't forecast anything. Things are going down so quickly that it?s hard to forecast. We had gone
two or three years in a row with each month down seasonally adjusted on the 12?month moving

 

RTA Board of Trustees
October 22, 2019
Page 5 of 5

average. The sales tax has increased four months in a row. Fewer people are working. Less
money is being made. It's going to be difficult to prepare the budget.

9. Loh Cleveland. OH She is happy the Board supports public input. The new Paratransit Director
Nick Davidson is making things happen. Fleet Management Spoke to the ADA committee about
information they'd like to receive about purchasing new vehicles. Paratransit riders have to use
fixed route so they ask that their feedback be considered. She thanked Jose Feliciano too. She
said two of the public meetings were canceled without notice. The system redesign concepts are
not helping Paratransit.

Mayor Clough said that not everything has to be brought up at the Board Meetings if it is being brought to
the administration, but they appreciate the input. The time for the public to speak may be changed to a
one time, three minute limit at the beginning of the meeting.

Upcoming Meetings

The next regular Board meeting is scheduled for Tuesday, November 19, 2019 in the Board Room of the
Authority, Root-McBride Building, 1240 West Sixth Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44113.

Clea/L

Mg President 
Attest: - O.

lnterim Secretary?Treasurer

This meeting was adjourned at 10:55 am.

