Regular Meeting of the
Cuyahoga Arts & Culture Board of Trustees
Children’s Museum of Cleveland, 3813 Euclid Ave, Cleveland, OH 44115
Wednesday, November 13, 2019, 5:00 p.m.

1. Call to order, approval of minutes
a. Call to order
b. Call the roll
c. Motion to approve September minutes
2. Public Comment on Today’s Agenda
3. Connect with Culture
Maria Campanelli, executive director, Children’s Museum of Cleveland
4. Executive Director’s Report
5. Action Items and Reports
a. Project Support 2020
i. Action: Approval of scores and grants
b. General Operating Support 2020
i. Action: Approval of scores and grants
6. Action Items and Reports – Finance and General Business
a. Finance Report
b. Executive Director Search
7. Public Comment
8. Adjourn to reception

Next Regular Meeting: December 11, 2019 – 3:30 p.m.
Location TBD

1 of 43

 Minutes of the Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees
Wednesday, September 11, 2019
The regular meeting of the Cuyahoga Arts & Culture (CAC) Board of Trustees was called to order at 4:07
p.m. at Karamu House, 2355 E 89th Street, Cleveland, OH 44106.
The roll call showed that Trustees Garth, Hanson, and Sherman were present. It was determined that there
was a quorum.
Trustee Mendez arrived at 4:16 p.m. Trustee Miller was absent.
Also in attendance were: CAC staff: Jill Paulsen, interim CEO & executive director; Luis Gomez; Meg
Harris; Heather Johnson-Banks; Dan McLaughlin; India Pierre-Ingram; and Jake Sinatra.
1.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Motion by Trustee Hanson, seconded by Trustee Garth, to approve the minutes from the April 24, 2019
Board of Trustees meeting. Discussion: None. Vote: all ayes. The motion carried.
2.

PUBLIC COMMENT ON MEETING AGENDA ITEMS

There were no public comments on the meeting agenda items.
3.

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR’S REPORT

Ms. Paulsen thanked everyone for joining her and the Board. Ms. Paulsen’s remarks can be found here.
4.

CONNECT WITH CULTURE

Karamu House: General Operating Support and Support for Artists grant recipient.
5.

UPDATE ON PARTNERSHIP PROJECT

Ms. Paulsen shared an update on a new partnership project among CAC, Arts Cleveland (formerly CPAC)
and the Arts and Culture Action Committee (political action committee). The three organizations are
working with the consulting firm WolfBrown to help identify ways they can work better together for the
benefit of residents and arts organizations.
Trustee Sherman asked who WolfBrown was and Ms. Paulsen stated that they are a nationally recognized
arts consulting firm. She added that prior to the selection of the firm, a request for proposal (RFP) was

2 of 43

 released and that as a result of that process WolfBrown was selected. Ms. Paulsen shared that WolfBrown
rose to the top with their experience in the Cleveland arts community and come highly regarded.
Trustee Hanson asked how the partnership project is funded. Ms. Paulsen stated that the Cleveland
Foundation provided the funding and a request is pending with the Gund Foundation.
6.

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SEARCH

CAC Trustee Hanson updated the Board on the executive director search, stating that the board continues
to work with Arts Consulting Group and its Search Team, comprised of a dozen community leaders, to
identify and name CAC’s next executive director. Trustee Hanson’s full remarks can be found here.
Trustee Garth asked if the executive director search was connected with the partnership project. Trustee
Hanson said they are separate but that each is aware that the other is happening.
Trustee Mendez clarified that the two projects are running parallel, that the executive director search is
continuing while recognizing that any executive director chosen will need to lead the continued partnership
project. Trustee Hanson confirmed her clarification.
7.

FINANCE REPORT

Ms. Harris’ report can be found here.
8.

PUBLIC COMMENT

Walter Allen Rodger Jr. (Cuyahoga County)
The next meeting will be held on Wednesday, November 13, 2019. Location is to be determined.
9. ADJOURNMENT
Motion by Trustee Hanson, seconded by Trustee Mendez, to adjourn the meeting. Discussion: None. Vote:
all ayes. The motion carried. The meeting was adjourned at 4:47 p.m.

Attest:

Charna Sherman, President, Board of Trustees

Gwendolyn Garth, Secretary, Board of Trustees

3 of 43

 Interim Executive Director’s Report

Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees
13 November 2019

Welcome to our November meeting.
Today we celebrate our new and returning grant recipients. At this meeting we will conduct a
majority of our 2020 grantmaking. I appreciate longtime CAC grantee, the Children’s Museum of
Cleveland, for hosting us. And I thank our grant applicants and the CAC staff for the months of work it
took to get to today. I continue to be grateful for our team’s humble and thoughtful approach to their daily
work.
In preparation for our meeting, please focus your attention on two Board action items: the review and
approval of 2020 Project Support and 2020 General Operating Support grants.
As you’ll read in the memos that follow, we recommend 277 grants totaling $11,800,898 for our core
grants programs in 2020.



65 grants totaling $10.2 million through General Operating Support
212 grants totaling $1,600,898 through Project Support

While not part of the November meeting, please note three additional agency highlights since last we met:


I’d like to take a moment to thank over 50 CEOs, executive directors, and senior
leaders from our General Operating Support-funded groups for participating last month
in a two-day workshop with RaceForward. It is powerful to share time with organizations
large and small as we work together to make the arts more racially equitable.



Our partnership with Neighborhood Connections, a program of the Cleveland
Foundation, just wrapped up another successful year. Soon we’ll announce another 8 cofunded, resident-led arts and culture projects in Cleveland and East Cleveland. By the
time we gather for this Board meeting, CAC will have held the last of our quarterly Arts
& Culture Network Nights. Throughout 2019, hundreds of artists and grantees have
gathered to make connections and use the arts to share and shift power. We look forward
to continuing our joint grantmaking and our quarterly meet-ups with Neighborhood
Connections in 2020.



Finally, please know that staff is working together to reflect on our core 2019 work and
set our 2020 team objectives. We look forward to sharing this progress with you in
coming weeks.

Thanks, as always, for your attention to the important matters before the Board today.

4 of 43

 CAC Board Meeting November 13, 2019
Updates from Staff
Each year, Cuyahoga Arts & Culture staff members identify team objectives to guide our work that are
mindful of the staff team agreements that we have made with one another, and grounded in CAC’s Mission,
Vision & Values. This year our team objectives remain focused on our two constituencies: 1) the local arts
and culture sector and; 2) Cuyahoga County residents, as well as noting our efforts to continuously improve
our operations so we can deliver on our mission.
What follows are highlights of the work the team has accomplished since our September 2019 Board
meeting.
GRANTMAKING / Connecting with artists and organizations
General Operating Support 2020-21 Snapshot
CAC recommends 65 grants for 2020 General Operating Support (GOS) totaling $10.2M.
Grants range in size from approximately $13,000 to over $1.1 million each year, for two years. The
portfolio reflects a fairly diverse (by size and discipline) set of organizations.
The General Operating Support panel was conducted September 25.
 5 panelists reviewed 5 applications, 4 of which will be recommended for funding.


Applicants were given an opportunity to address the panelists and respond in a questionand-answer format. Initial feedback was positive; staff will continue to evaluate the results
of this approach which was piloted in 2017.



61 groups that qualified to receive grants without taking part in the panel process are also
recommended for funding.

Project Support 2020 Snapshot
CAC recommends funding 212 projects through the 2020 Project Support (PS) program
totaling $1,600,898. Grants range from $1,000 to $25,000 for projects taking place across
Cuyahoga County.
CAC conducted the Project Support I panel on September 23-24.


10 panelists reviewed 66 applications, 61 of which are recommended for funding.

Staff managed the Project Support II panel in an online process.


15 panelists reviewed 155 applications in September. 151 applications are recommended
for funding. Panelists shared feedback along with their scores, which will be shared with
applicants as an educational tool for future applications.

Please see GOS, PS and panelist memos in this packet for further details on our 2020 grantmaking process.

5 of 43

 2018-19 General Operating Support. Current 2018-19 GOS grant recipients are completing their 2019
Year-End Reports. Submission of these reports is required in order to receive final payments for 2019
grants. GOS grant recipients who were exempt from the application and panel process are also required to
complete their 2020 Goal Setting. Grant recipients will report on their progress throughout the 2020 grant
period. In addition to setting goals for each of CAC’s funding criteria (Public Benefit, Artistic and Cultural
Vibrancy, and Organizational Capacity), groups will also set racial equity commitments. CAC has provided
ongoing technical assistance in 2019 and will continue in 2020 to support this work.
Neighborhood Connections. In addition to CAC’s primary grants slated for approval, we’re pleased to
announce the co-funding of 8 resident-led arts and culture projects through our ongoing partnership with
Neighborhood Connections (a program of the Cleveland Foundation). This round of co-funded projects will
support resident-led activities in a variety of neighborhoods in Cleveland and East Cleveland. A sampling
of exciting projects from this partnership include:




Creativity in Stella Walsh Rec Center will host an introduction to graphic design course to help
connect youth to art, computers, and graphic design. Youth participants will create flyers and logos,
and learn Photoshop.
The Muslim Writers Collective will create a poetry collective for Muslim-identifying and Muslim
heritage artists. The collective is womyn and queer-led, and based in Sufi practices of worship and
divine communion and creative practice.
Gordon Square Classical Concerts will provide free performances of music written and
performed by local residents to engage and educate community.

To date, CAC has co-funded 340 projects through its partnership with Neighborhood Connections. Thanks,
once again, to Dan for managing this project and serving on the grantmaking committee.
Updates on Initiatives to Support Grantee Racial Equity Learning and Action


Racial Equity Institute. CAC continued to raise awareness about the need for racial equity in the
arts by fully funding the participation of CAC-funded organizations in Racial Equity Institute (REI)
learning sessions, in partnership with Cleveland Neighborhood Progress and ThirdSpace Action
Lab. As of September 2019, 100 individuals have participated in the two-day Phase I session or the
half-day Groundwater session. We anticipate another 20 grantees will participate before the end of
the year.



Race Forward. CAC hosted a 1.5 day Building
Racial Equity training on October 17-18 by
Race Forward, a national organization leading
innovative approaches to help people take
effective action towards racial equity. The
training was open to all CEOs and Executive
Directors from organizations receiving General
Operating Support funding. In all, 53 executive
leaders from 46 grantee organizations attended
the training. The interactive training connected
attendees to racial equity concepts especially as
they pertain to the arts. In addition to exploring
core concepts about race and racism, the
training provided space to explore how implicit
bias affects institutional practices, provided tips

More than 50 leaders of organizations receiving General
Operating Support from CAC attended the training on Oct. 17-18.

6 of 43

 for cultural leaders as they plan to create organizational equity commitments, and share tools for
advancing racial equity in day-to-day activities.
We have received overwhelming positive feedback on this leadership training; the session was
modeled after a RaceForward funders workshop we co-funded last year with Cleveland and Gund
foundations. Thanks to Luis for managing this project.


Moving Towards Equity. CAC has hosted three Moving Towards Equity sessions with Erica
Merritt of Equius Group. These learning sessions are open to any staff or Board members from
organizations receiving General Operating Support. The purpose of these learning sessions is to
create a space for organizations to learn how to implement racial equity into their own work, with
facilitation by Equius Group. Our fourth and final session will be held on December 5th from 9 a.m.
to 11 a.m. at MidTown Tech Hive. CAC Trustees, we welcome you to join us at future events.
Please contact Heather, our project lead, for more information.

Arts & Culture Network Night. In partnership with
Neighborhood Connections, CAC has hosted three Arts &
Culture Network Nights in 2019. The goal of these quarterly
organizing events is to spark connections and inspire
collective action among our arts and cultural community.
Each Network Night was attended by 50-60 participants and
fostered inspiring conversations and connections. Our last
Network Night of 2019 will be held on November 7 from 6
p.m. to 8 p.m. at New Bridge Cleveland. We anticipate cohosting network nights with Neighborhood Connections
again in 2020.

Arts & Culture Network Night is a quarterly gathering of
residents, artists, and arts organization leaders.

Support for Artists. As the 2019 pilot year winds down, most
Support for Artists projects are wrapping up. Cleveland Arts
Prize has completed its project and recognized 10 Verge Fellows
in September at its awards ceremony. LAND studio also hosted
their two, two-day “Studio to the Street” workshops in September
and October. Three of the remaining projects are coming to a
close by the end of the year with the fourth having been granted
an extension into 2020. Projects are being evaluated on a rolling
basis as they come to a close. At the next Board meeting, we look
forward to bringing initial grant recommendations to continue
this work in 2020.

CAC-funded “Studio to the Street” Workshop at
LAND studio. Photo by Amber N. Ford.

Center for Performance and Civic Practice’s Learning Lab. Following Board approval earlier this year,
we have launched a second iteration of the successful CPCP’s Learning Lab program, supported by CAC.
This professional development and project funding program fosters collaboration between twelve local
artists and twelve CAC grantees, with a focus on civic practice or arts-based community-led transformation.
The next round of twelve artists, which are selected by CPCP, can learn more and apply to the program by
visiting cacgrants.org/LearningLab and completing the short application by November 25th at Midnight.

7 of 43

 RAISING AWARENESS / Connecting with residents
Connecting with Local Artists. The ClevelandArtsEvents.com artist listing continues to grow and receive
additional signups each week. With over 150 artists featured, we continue to share the directory with our
grantees as a resource. In addition, we have begun to include artists in our bi-weekly Event-Newsletter, as
a way to highlight the diverse range of regional artists with more than 9,000 subscribers in our community.
If you know an artist who is interested in sharing their work and getting connected, encourage them to visit
www.ClevelandArtsEvents.com/artists.
5th Annual Partnership Event at Baldwin Wallace
Spotlights Diversity, Equity, Inclusion. CAC partnered on
October 15 with Baldwin Wallace University, a longtime
Project Support grant recipient, to host a panel discussion and
networking event centered on diversity, equity and inclusion
in the arts. Moderated by Jill Paulsen, the event featured four
women leading or working at CAC-funded organizations:
Burning River Baroque, Karamu House, LatinUS Theater
Company, and SPACES. The panel highlighted the work of
CAC-funded organizations to address racial inequities and
create a more inclusive arts and cultural community. The
gathering was attended by more than 150 students and
community members.

Moderated by CAC’s Jill Paulsen, the event featured a
panelist of leaders from CAC-funded organizations.

Media Placements. In addition to consistent crediting for Cuyahoga Arts & Culture in the media by our
partners, below is a sampling of recent media clips focused on CAC’s work:


Cleveland students bringing ‘My Violin Weighs A Ton’ hip-hop concert to Severance
Hall “The partnership came from the Center for Performance and Civic Practice’s
Learning Lab program, supported by Cuyahoga Arts & Culture.” (September 11, 2019) –

Cleveland Plain Dealer


Small grants can make a big difference, Cuyahoga Arts & Culture Finds “Sometimes
$5,000 or less is all it takes to get a program off the ground and expand its offerings,
especially for small endeavors.” (September 26, 2019) – Fresh Water Cleveland



Help Veterans Stay Warm with Socks4Soldiers “Cleveland has a rich history in
providing military service going all the way back to the Civil War. Annemarie Roeder
with Cleveland Grays Armory and Jake Sinatra from Cuyahoga Arts and Culture were in
studio today to explain.” (November 5, 2019) – WKYC Live on Lakeside

See a full list of media placements since CAC’s last Board meeting.

8 of 43

 BUILDING INTERNAL CAPACITY
Continuous Improvement/Commitment to Learning.
Internal Equity Team. CAC has been on continuous journey of learning and action around our
organizational value of equity. As noted above, this year we are hosting a capacity building program for
our General Operating Support grantees called Moving Towards Equity. As participants in these sessions,
CAC staff completed an internal assessment using the “Continuum on Becoming an Anti-Racist
Multicultural Organization.” We identified ourselves as between Stage 3 (Symbolic Change) and Stage 4
(An Affirming Institution). As a result, CAC formed an Internal Equity Team (IET) of three staff members;
India Pierre-Ingram, Luis Gomez and Heather Johnson-Banks; who volunteered to further this effort.
The IET will guide the full staff through next steps and ensure accountability to continuing our racial equity
work. We welcome the Board’s feedback regarding where you think we are on the “Continuum on
Becoming an Anti-Racist Multicultural Organization,” and looking forward to continuing this work as a
full board and staff team.
Heather attended the 2019 Bromelkamp Academy. It was an opportunity to connect with and learn from
Akoya users from around the country. Sessions spanned three days and focused on customizing the grant
software, automating messaging and workflows, and creating reports.
Dan participated as a liaison in Neighborhood Connections’ Round 34 grantmaking committee
process. The liaison role doesn’t vote on individual applications, but helps the committee to make informed
final decisions. Dan was able to remind committee members to consider the criteria for funding and the
goals of the grant program. This was an excellent opportunity to observe, learn from and be a part of another
local organization’s approach to grantmaking. The grantmaking committee met one night a week for eight
weeks.
Meg attended the Ohio Treasurer’s Center for Public Investment Management Academy in October.
Sessions included Electronic Banking and Cyber Security; Effective Internal Controls, Policies and
Procedures; and The Ohio Ethics Law – Upholding Trust in Government. In regards to the Ethics Law,
there are several useful and informative videos available for the Board and staff to watch. Specific
recommendations for CAC are Conflict of Interest and Gifts.

9 of 43

 FINANCIAL UPDATE
Revenue. Revenue through October 31 was $10,623,292. This figure is $302,011 (2.8%) below forecast
and $918,539 (8.0%) below revenue for the same period in 2018. Interest revenue through October was
$309,817, 30% above forecast.
Expenditure. The majority of CAC’s budget is comprised of grants which were approved in 2018. These
grants are accrued at the beginning of the year and recognized on the balance sheet. Non-grant expenditures
through October were $812,354 and are tracking $282,958 below budget due to timing of payments and
open staff positions.
Cash disbursements through October were $13,643,654. Please note the expenditure figure varies from the
financial statements because we recognized, or accrued, the full amount of grant awards for 2019 in January.
We will draw down the balance sheet accounts as we remit payments to our cultural partners.
Investments. As of October 31, CAC inactive monies are invested as follows:



Red Tree Investment Group: $15,729,439 (avg. yield at cost: 2.13%; avg. maturity 1.71 years)
STAR Ohio: $2,234,081 (overnight yield 1.93%)

Budget Projections at Year End
It is projected that CAC will end 2019 with tax receipts of approximately $12.75 million. Based on past
data, it is not anticipated that tax receipts will rebound during the remainder of the year, as illustrated in the
chart below.

Year
Revenue Jan - August
Change year-over-year YTD
Change year-over-year @ YE

$

2016
12,409,179 $
-5.2%
-7.6%

2017
12,286,851 $
-1.0%
-1.6%

2018
11,541,831 $
-6.1%
-5.0%

2019
10,623,292
-8.0%

Expenditures continue to track under budget due to several factors including two open staff positions and
the delay of programs related to our community planning, now targeted for 2020. We anticipate ending the
year approximately $600,000 under budget and will draw an estimated $850,000 from the reserve rather
than the budgeted $1.2 million.

10 of 43

 Audit and Finance Committee
The Audit and Finance Advisory Committee met on November 4. At this meeting the committee received
a report on its investments from Ryan Nelson of RedTree Investment Advisors and reviewed CAC’s
Investment Policy. There were no recommended changes to either the investment strategy or policy.
2020 Budget Preview
At the November 13 meeting the Board will be asked to approve the majority of the grant awards for 2020.
With these approvals, CAC will have the foundation for its 2020 budget, with grants comprising over 90%
of its annual budget. By December, staff will finalize its team goals and objectives for 2020. This work will
help us build the 2020 budget, which will be presented to the Board for approval on December 11.
With the relatively level funding of CAC’s two primary grant programs, we anticipate the 2020 budget will
be very similar to the 2019 budget on the expense side. The impact of lower tax receipts, however, will
mean a draw on our reserve in 2020 of approximately $1.5 million. This draw was anticipated but is higher
than past models shared with the Board. This will be somewhat offset by the lower than budgeted draw on
the reserve anticipated at the end of 2019.

11 of 43

 Cuyahoga Arts & Culture
Through 10/31/19

Actual YTD
Ordinary Revenue/Expenditures
Revenue
Excise Tax
Interest
Other revenue
Total Revenue
Expenditures
Arts & Cultural Programming
Salaries, Wages and Benefits
Grant Panel Expenses
Grant Management Expenses
Awareness Activities
Grants**
Total A&C Exenditures
General & Administrative
Salaries, Wages and Benefits
Facilities, Supplies, Equipment
Professional Fees
Depreciation
Total G&A Expenditures
Total Expenditures
Net Ordinary Revenue

$
Over/Under
Budget

Budget YTD

%
of Budget

$
$
$
$

10,623,292
309,817
10,933,109

$
$
$
$

10,925,303
237,500
11,162,803

$
$
$
$

(302,011)
72,317
(229,694)

97.24%
130.45%

$
$
$
$
$
$

318,190
22,590
46,058
46,053
12,831,300
13,264,191

$
$
$
$
$
$

361,805
31,600
77,700
53,000
13,217,544
13,741,649

201,646
62,041
115,775

$
$
$

307,215
84,064
179,929

(43,615)
(9,010)
(31,642)
(6,947)
(386,244)
(477,457)
(105,569)
(22,023)
(64,154)

87.9%

$
$
$

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

(191,745)
(669,202)
439,508

$
$
$
$

379,463
13,643,654
(2,710,545)

$
$
$
$

571,208
14,312,856
(3,150,053)

97.9%

59.3%
86.9%
97.1%
96.5%
65.6%
73.8%
64.3%
66.4%
95.3%

** Outstanding 2018 and 2019 grant obligations are on the balance sheet.

12 of 43

 Cuyahoga Arts & Culture
Balance Sheet as of

Oct 31, 19
ASSETS
Current Assets
Checking/Savings
KeyBank
RedTree (U.S.Bank)
Star Ohio
Total Checking/Savings
Accounts Receivable
11000 · Accounts Receivable
Total Accounts Receivable
Total Current Assets
Fixed Assets
15000 · Furniture and Equipment
15001 · Software and Webdesign
17000 · Accumulated Depreciation
Total Fixed Assets
TOTAL ASSETS
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Other Current Liabilities
24000 · Payroll Liabilities
24200 · GOS Grants
24300 · Project Support Grants
24400 · Other Grants/Program Contracts
Total Other Current Liabilities
Total Current Liabilities
Total Liabilities
Equity
32000 · Retained Earnings
Net Income
Total Equity

37,133
15,729,439
2,234,081
18,000,652

1,085,375
1,085,375
19,086,027
75,223
10,000
-80,849
4,373
19,090,400

580
1,019,980
891,546
151,730
2,063,836
2,063,836
2,063,836
19,737,109
-2,710,545
17,026,564

13 of 43

 Month
JANUARY
FEBRUARY
MARCH
APRIL
MAY
JUNE
JULY
AUGUST
SEPTEMBER
OCTOBER
NOVEMBER
DECEMBER
TOTALS

Year
Revenue Jan - August
Change year-over-year YTD
Change year-over-year @ YE

CIGARETTE TAX RECEIPTS FY 18 VS FY 19 YTD
2018
2019
2018
2019
$VAR
$
1,489,490.74 $
937,849.45 $
(551,641.29)
$
675,154.53 $
911,499.85 $
236,345.32
$
1,122,153.58 $
998,471.61 $
(123,681.97)
$
1,094,271.01 $
1,091,847.74 $
(2,423.27)
$
975,737.92 $
1,178,936.37 $
203,198.45
$
2,399,933.00 $
1,896,350.82 $
(503,582.18)
$
227,176.60 $
189,281.05 $
(37,895.55)
$
1,225,670.88 $
1,112,511.45 $
(113,159.43)
$
1,121,033.98 $
1,221,169.15 $
100,135.17
$
1,211,208.69 $
1,085,374.60 $
(125,834.09)
$
1,221,272.88
$
1,036,824.70
$
13,799,928.51 $
10,623,292.09 $
(918,538.84)

$

2016
12,409,179 $
-5.2%
-7.6%

2017
12,286,851 $
-1.0%
-1.6%

2018
11,541,831 $
-6.1%
-5.0%

18-19% VAR
-37%
35%
-11%
0%
21%
-21%
-17%
-9%
9%
-10%

-8.0%

2019
10,623,292
-8.0%

Revenue January - October
$13,000,000
$12,000,000
$11,000,000
$10,000,000
$9,000,000
2016

2017

2018

2019

14 of 43

 MEMORANDUM
Date:
To:
From:
Re:

November 13, 2019
CAC Board of Trustees
CAC staff: Luis Gomez, Heather Johnson-Banks, Dan McLaughlin
2020 Project Support and General Operating Support panelist recruitment and roster

SUMMARY
What follows is an update on the roster of 25 panelists for CAC’s 2020 Project Support and
2020-21 General Operating Support grant program panels, which took place on September 2324 (PS I) and September 25 (GOS) at Idea Center; and online in September (PS II).
No action is required.
Background & Selection Process
Panelists play a pivotal role in Cuyahoga Arts & Culture’s grantmaking process, serving as the independent
group of outside experts that review and evaluate applications. Staff devoted substantial time to secure a
diverse and reputable roster of panelists from across the nation. Their biographies appear on the following
pages.
This year’s slate of panelists is a mix of returning (10) and new (15) panelists. The group is diverse in
artistic/management expertise, race/ethnicity, gender and age:
Race/Ethnicity

Gender

Asian

8%

Black/African American
Caucasian
Hispanic/Latino

40%
44%
4%

Two or more

4%

Age

Female

48%

Male

52%

20-29

20%

30-39
40-49
50 and above

28%
32%
20%

Staff vetted candidates through personalized outreach emails, phone calls and reference checks. Staff
matched panelists’ skills and expertise to eligible applications. Panelists received all application materials
and access to our online system in late August. They participated in training webinars September 4-5 to
ensure all were prepared to serve.
Panelist rosters were made available to the public on the first day of each public panel meeting (September
23 for PS I and September 25 for GOS). The PS II panelist roster was made public when the online scoring
had closed (September 24). Our grant recipients should be pleased to see respected regional and national
leaders thoughtfully selected and qualified to evaluate grant applications. Panelists were compensated with
an honorarium (PS I and GOS: $275 per day of service; PS II: $300 total).

15 of 43

 Cuyahoga Arts & Culture 2020 Panelist Biographies
**denotes previous service as a Cuyahoga Arts & Culture panelist
Christopher Audain (Chicago, Illinois)**
Christopher Audain is program officer at Alphawood Foundation, a private
grantmaking foundation working for an equitable, just, and humane
society. Chris previously worked at the Art Institute of Chicago and the
Logan Center for the Arts at the University of Chicago. Originally from
Nashville, TN, Chris is an artist, arts administrator, singer, and advocate.
He is the bandleader and singer for the Chicago cover band RECOVERY
EFFECTS. He is Chairman of the board for Congo Square Theatre
Company. Chris believes the arts are uniquely imperative in their ability to
divulge the human condition, bring people together, and ultimately break
down the perverted preconceived notions that tend to divide us. He
received his BA in Political Science at Kenyon College with a minor in
music, and his master’s in arts administration from Goucher College.

Brad Carlin (Austin, Texas)**
Brad Carlin is a consulting analyst at TRG Arts, where he works to
engage, advise, and better understand some of the most impactful arts
organizations in the world through their data and programs. Previously,
Brad was the managing director of Fusebox Festival in Austin, TX. Brad
has worked in general management and fundraising for SITI Company
(NYC), Salvage Vanguard Theatre (Austin), and the Guadalupe Cultural
Arts Center (San Antonio). He has been an adjunct professor of Arts
Administration at St. Edward's University and an alum of the Theatre
Communications Group New Generations Fellowship, University of Texas
LBJ School Strategic Management Program, and APAP Leadership
Development Institute. He received a master’s Degree in Arts
Management from Carnegie Mellon University and a B.A. in theatre from
St. Edward’s University.

Dr. Antonio C. Cuyler (Tallahassee, Florida)**
Dr. Antonio C. Cuyler is associate professor of arts administration,
coordinator of the MA program in arts administration, and teaches doctoral
and master’s students at Florida State University (FSU). Among the
courses that he teaches is grant writing and development in the arts in
which he developed the Arts Administration Service Learning Program
(ASLP) to enhance his students’ development as grant writers. His grant
writing and funding related publications appears in the Grant Professional
Association Journal and the Grantmakers in the Arts (GIA) Reader. Dr.
Cuyler has also served on 12 grant panels and reviewed 275 grants for
funding agencies such as the Arts Council of Fairfax County, Council on
Culture & Arts (COCA), Florida Division of Cultural Affairs, National
Endowment for the Arts (NEA), and U. S. Department of Education.

16 of 43

 Ryan Deal (Charlotte, North Carolina)
Ryan Deal is the director of advancement for the Children’s Theatre of
Charlotte, where he oversees a $1.5MM portfolio of contributed revenue
including the identification, solicitation and stewardship of more than 450
individual and institutional funding relationships. Prior to joining the team
at CTC, Ryan spent eight years at the Arts & Science Council of CharlotteMecklenburg including a tenure as vice president for cultural and
community investment, where he was responsible for a $7.5MM
grantmaking portfolio. During his time at ASC, Ryan led several
organizational efforts toward increased racial and cultural equity,
including the creation of Culture Blocks, a county-funded initiative to
bring free resident-informed arts and culture experiences to residents.
Ryan is a frequent actor and music director for theatrical productions in the
Charlotte region and holds a BA in music from the University of NC at
Greensboro.
Jeff Garrett (Lansing, MI)
Jeff Garrett is the operational support program manager for the State of
Michigan Council for Arts & Cultural Affairs. Previously, Jeff served as
the director of the art school at the Flint Institute of Arts. He has teaching
experience in Michigan Public Schools, has been adjunct faculty at
Vincennes University, Saginaw Valley State University, Mott College, and
was Head of the art and design department at Crowder College. Jeff
received a master of fine arts degree in ceramics with distinction from
Indiana State University.

Rebecca Kinslow (Nashville, TN)**
Rebecca Kinslow is the community and organizational development
director for Metro Arts, Nashville’s Office of Arts & Culture. With over
20 years of experience as an arts leader, she has specialized in event
planning, marketing, community development, grantmaking, program
management and organizational development in the nonprofit, higher
education and government sectors. Kinslow leads the development,
strategic planning and oversight of programs, partnerships and financial
investments designed to support stronger arts & cultural organizations in
Nashville. She oversees a $2.5 million annual public grant investment
program, cultural and racial equity strategy, community arts programming
and a wide network of partnerships that expand the mission of Metro Arts
to drive a vibrant and equitable community through the arts. She holds an
executive certificate in arts and cultural strategy and a M.S. in nonprofit
leadership from University of Pennsylvania.

17 of 43

 Kenda Lovecchio (Austin, TX)
Kenda Lovecchio is a fundraising consultant who has more than 19 years
of experience in the nonprofit sector. Most recently she served as the chief
development and communications officer at Bat Conservation
International. Prior to settling in Austin, Kenda served the Chicago market.
Key previous roles include: director of advancement for Chicago
Children’s Choir; major gifts officer and corporate relations for the Field
Museum of Natural History; prospect management at Northwestern
University, and head of development at the Center for Community Arts
Partnership at Columbia College Chicago. She was an adjunct faculty
member for the arts entertainment and media management program at
Columbia College Chicago, and taught fundraising and management at the
graduate and undergraduate levels. She previously co-founded a theater
company, where she served as managing director. Kenda earned her BA in
theater from Northwestern College in Orange City, Iowa.
Kevin O’Hora (New York, New York)**
Kevin O’Hora is the institutional giving officer at the New York
Philharmonic. Prior to this role, he served as institutional giving manager
at OPERA America where he managed a portfolio raising over $1.6
million annually, oversaw logistics at the annual conference and served on
the executive committee of the New York Opera Alliance. He has
previously held positions with The Glimmerglass Festival, New York
Musical Festival, Pittsburgh Festival Opera, and Pittsburgh CLO, among
other cultural nonprofits. With a passion for creating new works, he
spearheaded the development of three chamber operas for Co-Opera at
Pittsburgh Opera, and produced the international premiere of ID, Please at
the Tete-a-Tete Opera Festival (London), which was hailed as a “future
classic” by The Evening Standard. Kevin holds a Master of Arts
Management and BFA in voice performance from Carnegie Mellon
University.
June Washikita O’Neill (Philadelphia, Pennsylvania)
June Washikita O’Neill currently works for Your Part-Time Controller, a
firm that provides financial services for nonprofit organizations. She is the
former executive director of the Philadelphia Cultural Fund and previously
spent several years working in the nonprofit arts field before going to work
for the Pew Charitable Trusts. She continued to work with individual
artists as the first executive director of the Leeway Foundation and as the
administrative director for the Civitela Ranieri Foundation in Umbria,
Italy. Ms. O’Neill has served on numerous nonprofit boards and as a
panelist for the Pennsylvania Council on the Arts. Her favorite activity is
playing the Japanese taiko drums. Her husband is called Tim, her son is
called Luke and her dog is called Molly. She holds a BS in arts
management from Northern Arizona University.

18 of 43

 Jamaine Smith (Philadelphia, Pennsylvania)**
Jamaine Smith is a creative and lover of the arts who has spent most of his
career immersed in Philadelphia's arts and culture sector as an
administrator. He previously served as chief commons director of
CultureWorks Greater Philadelphia, where he assisted over 100 artists and
organizations with financial management, professional development, and
strategy. He has presented at numerous conferences on topics such as
fiscal sponsorship as a conduit for equity and power dynamics between
funders and grantees. Inspired by the many creatives he's had the pleasure
of walking alongside, Jamaine launched his own creative venture titled
""1216 Knox"", a space design firm focused on helping renters and
homeowners ""use what they got"" to make beautiful, purposeful spaces.
Jamaine holds an BS in social work (Nyack College), MA in urban studies
(Eastern University), and MBA (Philadelphia University).
Shalina S. Ali (Milwaukee, Wisconsin)
Shalina S. Ali was born and raised in Milwaukee and is a mother, artist and
entrepreneur. Her commitment to helping others and promoting self-care
drives her career and serves as a constant motivation on her mission. Coexecutive director of TRUE Skool, Inc. Shalina co-created the Circulate
Creative Entrepreneur Market and developed the “Art of Coping” and
“TRUE Knowledge” curriculums. She was awarded Creative Alliance’s
“Creative Problem-Solving Excellence” award for The Art of Coping’s
proactive address to suicide and depression. Shalina is a member of The
Central City Circle of Change and pursues her passions as a poet and
freelance photographer. Shalina specializes in program and staff
development, curriculum building, and for over 15 years has worked with
organizations such as the YMCA, Latino Community Center, Violence Free
Zone and the First Time Juvenile Offenders Program.

Rishard Allen (Indianapolis, Indiana)
Rishard Allen is the grant services and education partnerships coordinator
at the Arts Council of Indianapolis, assisting with the administration of arts
education initiatives and grant programs for individual artists and arts
organizations. His administrative practice supports the artistic work of
people from marginalized communities, acknowledging their contributions
as worthy of being commissioned, exhibited, performed, published, studied,
and funded. Prior to working at the Arts Council, he was the program
director at Arts for Learning Indiana and was an emerging field leader with
WolfBrown, providing assistance for a nationwide evaluation of The John
F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Art’s Ensuring the Arts for Any
Given Child initiative. Rishard also serves on the Arts & Culture Leaders of
Color Steering Committee for Americans for the Arts. Allen received his
BS in arts management from Indiana University Bloomington.

19 of 43

 Glenn Ayars (Dallas, Texas)
Glenn Ayars is a graduate of Southern Methodist University and the
University of Southern California where he received a Bachelor’s and
Master’s of music in performance, respectively. Along with his studies and
profession in music, Glenn has experience working in higher education at
Southern Methodist University in student affairs, residence life, and student
housing. In the nonprofit sector, Glenn has worked with the Boston Ballet
Summer Dance Program and the Los Angeles Chamber Orchestra. Glenn
currently works with the City of Dallas in the Office of Cultural Affairs as
the cultural programs manager and helps to support Dallas-based arts and
culture organizations and individual artists through various funding
programs.

LaShawnda Crowe Storm (Indianapolis, Indiana)
LaShawnda Crowe Storm is an artist, activist, community builder and
occasionally an urban farmer. In her spare time, she is the community
engagement director for Spirit & Place, an initiative of the Polis Center at
Indiana University-Purdue University, which utilizes the arts, humanities
and religion as a catalyst for civic engagement, critical community dialogue,
collaboration and experimentation. Crowe Storm uses her creative power as
a vehicle for dialogue, social change and community healing. As the
community builder and organizer for the Northwest Area Quality of Life
Plan, she worked with residents to translate their vision of community selfdetermination into an action plan with more than 100 community-led efforts
including community safety and peacebuilding to youth development.
Crowe Storm has an M.F.A. from the School of the Art Institute of Chicago
and a B.A. in communications and English Literature from the University
of Michigan.
Sherman Fleming (Philadelphia, Pennsylvania)
Sherman Fleming studied performance at Virginia Commonwealth
University, Richmond and Hartford Art School, Connecticut. Additionally,
his practice spans drawing, painting, sculpture, video, photography and
installation. His research has been the exploration of siting the black body
in conditions that are challenging and which act as a metaphor for the trauma
Black communities endure. Drawing upon elements of conventional
movement and personal experience, Fleming’s careerlong investigation of
performance actions seeks to craft an aesthetics of resilience.

20 of 43

 Maxine Gaiber (Philadelphia, Pennsylvania)
Maxine Gaiber is the interim executive director of Carpenters Company at
Carpenters’ Hall. Previously, she served as executive director of the
Gershman Y, executive director of the Delaware Center for Contemporary
Arts (now Delaware Contemporary), director of education and public
programs at the San Diego Museum of Art, director of education at the
Orange County Museum of Art in California, and associate director of
education at the Minneapolis Institute of Arts. She was the founding board
president of the Delaware Arts Alliance, has served on the board of
Delaware’s Forum for Executive Women, and is currently on the board of
the Museum Council of Greater Philadelphia. She has an MA in art history
and museology from the University of Minnesota and has completed the
Getty Leadership Institute program for museum executives.

Lisa Harper Chang (St. Louis, Missouri)**
Lisa Harper Chang is the assistant director of religious education for the
Unitarian Universalist Church of Arlington and co-founder of Art
Relevance, LLC, a firm dedicated to supporting arts-based work that
strengthens and builds more inclusive communities. She is also concurrently
working toward licensure in clinical social work practice. Lisa has served
as the education programs manager for the St. Louis Regional Arts
Commission and the community projects director at The Pulitzer
Foundation for the Arts, a co-appointment with the George Warren Brown
School of Social Work at Washington University in St. Louis. Lisa received
her master of social work degree from the George Warren Brown School of
Social Work, Washington University in St. Louis, and a bachelor of arts in
computational and applied mathematics from Rice University in Houston,
Texas.

Lawrence M. Jackson (Tuscaloosa, Alabama)
Lawrence M. Jackson, MFA, is the associate chair and associate professor
of dance at the University of Alabama where he teaches jazz,
modern/contemporary, choreography, and dance history and pedagogy.
Jackson has choreographed over 75 original works for the concert
stage. Most recently, Lawrence choreographed an off-Broadway
production, Separate and Equal, which premiered at Theater 59E59 in
September 2018. Jackson has recently served as a guest
artist/choreographer/master teacher at the California State University
Northridge, University of Nevada Las Vegas, University of Florida,
University of Wyoming, and many more. Jackson serves as the Executive
Director for The American Dance Company Experience (TADCE). As a
scholar, Jackson has published in many scholarly journals in the field of
Black Dance. Lawrence is a member of the Alabama Dance Council Board,
University of Alabama Faculty Senate, and International Association of
Blacks in Dance.

21 of 43

 Carly P. Jones (Raleigh, North Carolina) **
Carly P. Jones is an arts administrator with a background in community
programming, arts advocacy and nonprofit work. She is the music director
for the North Carolina Arts Council. Previously, she served as director of
communications and development for Arts Together. She has also worked
with the N.C. Association of Music Educators, the African American
Cultural Festival of Raleigh & Wake County, and Justice Theatre Project.
She has participated in the nationally recognized Arts Learning Community
for Universal Access and in the Kennedy Center’s Leadership Exchange in
Arts & Disability (LEAD) Conference. A singer her entire life, she has
performed professionally both opera and musical theater and is an active
recitalist. She holds a bachelor of music in vocal performance and a bachelor
of arts in black music history from Miami University in Ohio.

Alena Leonatti (Santa Barbara, California) **
Alena Leonatti is a groundskeeper for the City of Santa Barbara’s parks,
where she does much more than just lawn and shrub care. Her experience
has led her to assist in native plant and pollinator research on California’s
Channel Islands, collect seed, identify plants and horticulture. In any role,
her driving force is connecting communities with their open spaces, because
greenspaces are intersections where people of all ages, races, genders, and
religions can collectively celebrate the arts, sports, and local ecology.

Martin Leyva (San Marcos, California)
Martin Leyva has a strong passion for social justice and human rights issues
and is constantly addressing systematic issues of oppression. Leyva is a
member of California Association of Alcohol & Drug Educators as a
Certified Drug and Alcohol Treatment Counselor. In 2008, he founded the
Santa Barbara City College Transitions Program, which offers therapeutic
and educational opportunities to those affected by the criminal justice
system. He is also the co-founder of the Transitions Collective at CSUSM,
Palomar and Mira Costa College. He has led training on Best Practices for
Working with Formerly Incarcerated Individuals, Emotional Intelligence,
and Spiritual Self Care & Healing. He holds a bachelor’s degree in liberal
arts/psychology from Antioch University a master of arts in sociological
practice from Cal State San Marcos.

22 of 43

 Autumn Saxton-Ross (Washington, District of Columbia)
Autumn Saxton-Ross, PhD, is currently the mid-Atlantic regional director
for NatureBridge, a national residential environmental education nonprofit,
overseeing programs at Prince William Forest National Park in Virginia.
She started her career as an elementary school Health and PE teacher in
DCPS, and has since worked as the program director for place-based
initiatives at the National Collaborative for Health Equity, encouraging the
use of policy and environmental change as a solution to health inequities,
the DC Department of Health, promoting the natural connection between
parks, recreation and health. With degrees in sociology, health education,
and exercise science, her life’s work is improving the health of communities
through engagement, activity, education, exposure and opportunity, truly
believing that a healthy life is lived better outdoors.

Katie Skayhan (Boulder, Colorado) **
Katie Skayhan is community engagement and social innovation coordinator
at the CU Boulder College of Music. She has experience in strategic
planning, grants management, strategic communications, project
management and fundraising and has worked alongside public and private
sector professionals as well as artists and creatives to develop innovative
strategies that weave arts and culture into the fabric of community. Skayhan
works with the Boulder community and beyond to advance the social impact
of the College of Music and steward its commitment to equity, diversity,
inclusion and access. Skayhan proudly hails from Portland, Oregon, and is
a graduate of Indiana University’s School of Public and Environmental
Affairs. She holds two master's degrees in public affairs and arts
administration and a bachelor of music in vocal performance from Oberlin
Conservatory.

Kirkston Tyrone Spann (Chicago, Illinois)
Kirkston Tyrone Spann’s professional experience includes over 22 years in
the nonprofit and higher education fields. He currently serves as the
president for the Transformative Nonprofit Solutions Consultant company.
Mr. Spann worked for the Foundations of East Chicago for 18 years
managing their scholarship and grant programs. He also served as a
consultant for Lake Area United Way and as the program director for the
Gary Alumni Pathway for Students organization. Additionally, he worked
as the 21st Century Scholar coordinator and associate director of admissions
for Ivy Tech’s Lake County Campus. He attended Florida A & M
University in Tallassee, Florida where he received a bachelor’s of science
degree in architectural studies. Mr. Spann continued his education at the
University of Illinois in Champaign-Urbana where he received an MBA in
real estate finance.

23 of 43

 McKenzi Swinehart (Columbus, Ohio)
McKenzi Swinehart is grants and services manager at the Greater Columbus
Arts Council. McKenzi is responsible for implementing and overseeing
grants programs, resource development and community engagement. She
leads the project support grant process and program evaluation, manages the
grant submission platform and team technology needs, oversees the
fellowship and award portfolio and researches industry trends for strategic
implementation in the department. Prior to joining the Arts Council in 2017,
McKenzi served as the director of programs and development at Reno Little
Theater, where she designed and executed the overall fund development
plan, engaged with donors and sponsors, and oversaw the educational
outreach and accessibility programs. McKenzi has a bachelor of arts in
theater and political science from the University of Nevada, Reno and
currently serves on the Nevada Arts Council Jackpot Grant Panel.

24 of 43

 MEMORANDUM

Date:
To:
From:
Re:

November 13, 2019
CAC Board of Trustees
CAC Program Staff: Luis Gomez, Heather Johnson-Banks, Dan McLaughlin
2020 Project Support: approval of panel scores and grant amounts

SUMMARY
The goal of CAC’s Project Support (PS) grant program is to promote public access and encourage the
breadth of arts and/or cultural programming in our community. In 2020, the program’s purpose, eligibility
criteria and general structure is the same as last year’s. Staff is pleased to recommend to the Board a
portfolio of 212 grants totaling $1,600,898 for the 2020 Project Support program.
BOARD ACTION
At the November 13 meeting, we recommend that the Board approve the results of the 2020 Project Support
panel, including panel scores and grant amounts.

I. BACKGROUND
What stayed the same this cycle?
2020 marks the twelfth time CAC is offering its annual Project Support grant program, committed to connecting
residents throughout the county to arts and cultural activities. Project Support-funded projects occur in diverse
locations such as senior centers and homeless shelters, as well as street festivals and more traditional
performance venues. Each year the program further sharpens its focus on the goal of connecting residents to a
full ecosystem of arts and culture events in their own backyards and across Cuyahoga County.
Our Project Support panel processes were largely unchanged from last year: Project Support II was conducted
online and Project Support I was conducted in-person.
Public Benefit continues to be the primary lens through which panelists assess all applications, and this was
well-reflected in panelists’ scores and comments.
What’s new this cycle and why?
In April, CAC’s Board of Trustees approved changes to the Project Support I guidelines. These changes were
intended to manage our growing pool of Project Support applicants while tax revenue continues to decline. This
year's guidelines reduced the maximum grant amount in the Project Support I program from $30,000 to $25,000.

25 of 43

 II. APPLICANT TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES
Recognizing that our applicants have differing levels of grant-seeking capacity, staff sought to maximize the
impact of the training opportunities this year. Staff provided personalized technical assistance to applicants at
workshops and through one-on-one meetings, phone calls, and regular emails leading up to the deadline. The
team held five in-person workshops on the application process and what goes into a successful application.
Workshops were well-attended, with roughly 20 attendees per session. Workshops were held at:
 The Sculpture Center
 Negative Space Gallery
 Open Doors Academy
 Burten, Bell, Carr Development Corporation
 Children’s Museum of Cleveland
Not all applicants, especially those who are volunteers, can attend in-person, daytime trainings. To ensure every
applicant gets the help they need, the team created technical assistance videos, which were posted to CAC’s
YouTube channel. These videos cover eligibility requirements, request amounts, budget tables, support
materials, the application process and “The Power of Words” – an explanation of CAC’s reasons for tying
“respect” to its definition of Public Benefit, and support for applicants to conceive and describe their projects
more respectfully.
In addition, staff continued to offer applicants personalized “office hours” during the summer. These one-on-one
technical assistance sessions allow the CAC team to address each applicant’s unique needs and questions.
Thirteen organizations met with a Program Manager across two half-day sessions.

26 of 43

 III. APPLICANT POOL OVERVIEW

221 organizations submitted eligible applications that were reviewed by the panels. 68% of the applications
received were for the PS II program. 21 applicants had never received a grant from CAC (10% of the pool). The
geographic distribution of applicant organizations remains in line with past years, with the majority of all
applicants based in the City of Cleveland.
Of note, 52 applicant organizations identified as ALAANA (African, Latinx, Asian, Arab and Native
American)-led and serving organizations. Applicants had the opportunity to self-identify the leadership and
communities that their programming primarily serves. This is the first time that CAC has gathered this type of
demographic information about its Project Support grantees.
Applications covered a range of artistic disciplines (below). Overall, this year’s applicant pool reflected the
varied arts & cultural ecosystem in Cuyahoga County. For the first time this cycle, CAC specifically asked
applicants to define their project’s primary art form. While “music” was by far the most frequent response, it is
worth noting that many projects span multiple service areas – for example, an arts education program that
focuses on theater; or a festival that exists to promote bands/music.

27 of 43

 IV. PANEL REVIEW PROCESSES
Twenty-five qualified arts and culture professionals served as 2020 Project Support panelists. They represented
a cross-section of individuals with expert knowledge of specific arts or cultural disciplines,
management/financial experience, as well as prior panel experience. The recruitment process prioritized panelist
diversity. CAC staff worked to ensure that a panel diverse in race, gender and age would review all applicants.
Race/Ethnicity

Gender

Asian

8%

Black/African American

40%

Caucasian

44%

Hispanic/Latino

4%

Two or more

4%

Age

Female

48%

Male

52%

20-29

20%

30-39

28%

40-49

32%

50 and above

20%

Panelists reviewed 155 PS II applications online in September, and an additional 66 PS I applications during
public meetings at the Idea Center at Playhouse Square on September 23-24. Panelists deliberated and scored
each application in accordance with the funding criteria in the 2020 Project Support grant program guidelines.
As in previous years, CAC livestreamed the audio from the PS I panel review. 7 people representing applicant
organizations attended the Project Support I panel review, while the online live stream had 100 unique visitors.
These numbers continue the trend of greater online participation and less in-person participation. CAC
distributed an audience guide to help all in-person and online observers understand the panel review process.
We will include a similar panel guide along with the feedback forms distributed to PS II applicants.
Organizations were able to submit public comments and information correction forms either in person or online.
Using panel as an educational tool
The 2020 PS I panel review meeting was recorded for the public record and is accessible on our website. The
applicants received their scores (PS I) and funding recommendations (PS II) via email shortly after the
conclusion of the Project Support panels. The panelists’ comments and feedback are represented in the scores
each organization received.
Audio from both days of the panel review meetings and all 155 PS II feedback forms are posted on CAC’s
website. The audio clips and feedback forms serve as educational tools. CAC staff encourages all applicants,
whether or not they are funded, to share the links with their staff and boards.
Seeking feedback
At the conclusion of the PS I panel review meeting (September 24), CAC invited audience members and
panelists to participate in an informal public comment session. That discussion is recorded on its own track and
will also be accessible on our website. Staff uses this feedback to inform our future work. In addition, CAC
surveyed all panelists and will soon have an applicant survey out in the field. This feedback will be helpful as
we look ahead to the next cycle.

28 of 43

 V. CALCULATING SCORES AND GRANT AMOUNTS
CAC’s Funding Criteria
The funding criteria for 2020 Project Support are: Public Benefit; Artistic & Cultural Vibrancy; and
Organizational Capacity. To reflect CAC’s role as a public funder – committed to using public dollars to
benefit the public – CAC weighs Public Benefit more heavily than the other two funding criteria in its grant
programs.

Project Support I: Five panelists reviewed and scored each
application in-person using a scoring framework from 1 to 100
(see pages 3-4 of the audience guide for more details). The
panelists’ scores were averaged for each application to
determine the final score. Using the language of the scoring
framework, all applications that received a score of 75.00 or
higher have been recommended for a grant. Any application
with a score lower than 75.00 has not been recommended for a
grant.
61 applications received a score of 75 points or higher, 4
applications received a score below 75 points. This is in line
with previous cycles.

Project Support II: Panelists independently reviewed the
applications online. Panelists were asked if an application
demonstrated evidence of the funding criteria, with an emphasis
on public benefit. Scoring was: yes, somewhat or no.
Applications that received a majority of “yes” or “somewhat”
scores from panelists are being recommended for a grant.
Applications that received a majority of “no” scores from
panelists are not being recommended for a grant.
151 applications demonstrated enough evidence of the funding
criteria, 4 applications did not. This is in line with previous
cycles.

29 of 43

 Calculating Grant Amounts
2020 Project Support grants are calculated with multiple goals in mind:


The first and most important goal is to be able to continue to offer grants in keeping with the purpose
of the program. In order to achieve this, CAC sought to provide full grants (of the amount requested) to
multiple applicants.



The panel score continues to matter in both programs: the higher the score (or the more an applicant
demonstrates the funding criteria), the more of an application’s requested amount may be funded.



CAC recognizes the challenges of carrying out a proposed project without full funding. In order to
make meaningful grants to applicants receiving only partial funding, CAC recommends funding no
less than 75% of each applicant’s requested amount.

2020 Project Support I: Staff recommends fully funding the top 10% of applications (6). The remaining 55
applications that received 75 or higher are recommended for partial funding based on their score from panel (see
appendix 1 for details). Four applications that received below 75 will not be recommended for funding. This
results in 61 Project Support I grants totaling $947,942.
2020 Project Support II : 78 applications received unanimous “yes” scores from panelists. These applicants
provided evidence throughout the application that funding criteria were fully met and are recommended for full
funding of their request amount.
73 applications received a majority of “yes” or “somewhat” scores, but not enough “yes” scores to receive full
funding. These applicants provided some evidence throughout the application that funding criteria are met and
are recommended for partial funding at 80% of their request.
Four applications received a majority of “no” scores from panelists. These applicants did not provide evidence
throughout the application that funding criteria are met. These applications are not being recommended for a
grant.
This results in 151 Project Support II grants totaling $652,956.

Combined, this results in 212 grants totaling $1,600,898 for Project Support 2020.

This year, we are pleased to recognize the 52 ALAANA-led and serving organizations that will receive funding
in the 2020 Project Support program. This cycle is the first time that organizations self-identified as ALAANA
organizations in the application process. We look forward to building on this approach in future grant cycles and
considering further ways to support organizations for and led by people of color.

30 of 43

 VI. LOOKING FORWARD
Staff has already begun the pre-planning for the 2021 cycle. We continue to assess what is working and what to
improve, asking ourselves: what do we want to achieve through Project Support and how might we continue to
evolve the program to reach these goals? The continuing evolution of the Project Support program will be
guided by CAC’s values and feedback from applicants, panelists, Board and staff.
NEXT STEPS: November 13 Board Meeting
At the November 13 meeting, the Board will be asked to approve the results of the 2020 Project Support
panel, including panel scores and recommended grant amounts to 212 cultural partners totaling $1,600,898.
See Appendix 1 for a list of all 212 applicants’ scores and recommended grant amounts. See Appendix 2 for
a list of the 7 organizations that will not be recommended for funding.

31 of 43

 APPENDIX 1: Reference for Board Action
†

Indicates an ALAANA-identifying organization
* Indicates a first-time Project Support grant recipient

Program
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I

Organization
America SCORES Cleveland
American Hungarian Friends of Scouting
Aradhana Committee †
Baldwin Wallace University
Boys & Girls Clubs of Cleveland
Brite Cleveland
Carolyn L. Farrell Foundation
Cavani String Quartet
Chagrin Foundation for Arts & Culture
ChamberFest Cleveland
CityMusic Cleveland
Cleveland Ballet
Cleveland Chamber Music Society
Cleveland Classical Guitar Society
Cleveland Contemporary Chinese Culture Association †
Cleveland Cultural Gardens Federation
Cleveland Print Room
Cleveland School of the Arts Board of Trustees
convergence-continuum
Detroit Shoreway Community Development Organization
Doan Brook Watershed Partnership
Downtown Cleveland Alliance
Duffy Liturgical Dance Ensemble †
Fevered Dreams Productions
Foluke Cultural Arts Center †
Fred and Laura Ruth Bidwell Foundation
Greater Cleveland Neighborhood Centers Association
Greater Cleveland Urban Film Foundation †
Heights Youth Theatre
Hospice of the Western Reserve
Jennings Center for Older Adults
Jewish Federation of Cleveland
Jones Road Family Development Corporation
Judson Services
Julia De Burgos Cultural Arts Center †
Kulture Kids

Panel
Score
90.6
82.6
84.6
80.8
85.6
89
92.4
80.4
76.8
82.2
92.6
79.2
81.8
92.2
90.4
89.2
95.2
91.2
83.4
83.4
87.8
84.4
80.8
85.6
85.4
78
85.2
83.8
79.8
90.2
88.6
81.4
89.4
85.6
89
87.6

Grant
$ 12,485
$ 8,883
$ 21,150
$ 20,200
$ 21,400
$ 22,250
$ 13,450
$ 10,682
$ 11,826
$ 20,550
$ 25,000
$ 19,800
$ 11,452
$ 25,000
$ 14,006
$ 11,144
$ 25,000
$ 13,948
$ 8,608
$ 9,977
$ 21,950
$ 21,100
$ 11,433
$ 21,400
$ 9,262
$ 19,500
$ 14,065
$ 11,125
$ 15,609
$ 22,550
$ 9,119
$ 20,350
$ 13,225
$ 21,400
$ 7,982
$ 13,287
32 of 43

 PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS I
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II

Lakewood Historical Society
Les Délices
Lexington-Bell Community Center †
Literary Cleveland
Maelstrom Collaborative Arts
Mandel Jewish Community Center
Mercury Summer Stock
MidTown Cleveland
Music and Art at Trinity Cathedral
Musical Upcoming Stars in the Classics
NewBridge Cleveland
Open Doors Academy
Playwrights Local
Praxis: Integrated Fiber Workshop
Shore Cultural Centre
Slavic Village Development
Talespinner Children's Theatre
The Brecksville Theatre
The Cassidy Theatre
The City Club of Cleveland
Tremont West Development Corporation
University Circle Inc.
University Hospitals
Waterloo Arts
West Side Community House †
AfricaHouse International †
America Asian Pacific Islander Organization †
Art Song Festival
Arts in Strongsville
Arts Renaissance Tremont
ATNSC: Center for Healing & Creative Leadership †*
Baseball Heritage Museum
Bay Village Community Band
Beachwood Arts Council
Beachwood Historical Society
Benjamin Rose Institute on Aging
Berea Arts Fest
Bethlehem Community Health †*
Big Creek Connects
Blazing River Freedom Band
Bodwin Theatre Company*
BorderLight Festival of International Theatre Cleveland
Brooklyn Heights Service Clubs
Burning River Baroque
Burten, Bell, Carr, Development †

85.8
82
87.2
89.2
83.8
79.4
89.6
84.4
82.4
78.4
91
90.8
89.2
91.2
87.6
84.8
92.6
77.8
82.4
87.6
87.4
80
83.2
91.8
93.6
Somewhat
Somewhat
Somewhat
Yes
Somewhat
Somewhat
Yes
Somewhat
Somewhat
Somewhat
Somewhat
Somewhat
Somewhat
Somewhat
Somewhat
Somewhat
Somewhat
Somewhat
Somewhat
Somewhat

$ 12,674
$ 20,500
$ 15,160
$ 12,488
$ 8,833
$ 19,850
$ 22,400
$ 6,457
$ 14,291
$ 6,272
$ 22,750
$ 22,700
$ 6,478
$ 11,272
$ 7,264
$ 11,497
$ 13,055
$ 12,593
$ 17,168
$ 16,667
$ 6,163
$ 20,000
$ 20,800
$ 15,442
$ 25,000
$ 4,000
$ 4,000
$ 4,000
$ 5,000
$ 4,000
$ 4,000
$ 5,000
$ 2,800
$ 3,668
$ 4,000
$ 4,000
$ 4,000
$ 4,000
$ 2,000
$ 1,000
$ 4,000
$ 4,000
$ 4,000
$ 4,000
$ 4,000
33 of 43

 PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II

Campus District Inc.
Case Western Reserve University
Catholic Charities Corporation
Cedar Fairmount Special Improvement District
Celebrate the Arts Performance Academy †
Cesear's Forum
Choral Arts Society of Cleveland
Cleveland Chamber Choir
Cleveland Chamber Collective
Cleveland Chamber Symphony
Cleveland Clinic
Cleveland Composers Guild
Cleveland Grays Armory Museum
Cleveland Kids' Book Bank
Cleveland Leadership Center
Cleveland Philharmonic Orchestra
Cleveland Rape Crisis Center
Cleveland Rocks: Past Present and Future
Cleveland Shakespeare Festival
Cleveland TOPS Swingband
Cleveland Treatment Center
Cleveland Uncommon Sound Project*
Cleveland Vegan Society
Cleveland Women's Orchestra
CollectivExpress †
Connecting for Kids
Coventry Village Special Improvement District
Cudell Improvement
Cuyahoga River Community Planning
DANCEVERT
Dancing Classrooms Northeast Ohio
Earth and Air: String Orchestra*
Edward E. Parker Museum of Art †
Eliza Bryant Village †
ENCORE Chamber Music Institute
Environmental Health Watch †
Errin Ministries †
Esperanza †
Euclid Beach Park Now
Famicos Foundation †
Far West Center
FOCUS ON EDUCATION †
Folknet
Food Strong*
Friends of Euclid Creek Watershed

Yes
Yes
Somewhat
Yes
Somewhat
Yes
Yes
Somewhat
Somewhat
Yes
Yes
Yes
Somewhat
Yes
Yes
Somewhat
Yes
Yes
Somewhat
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Somewhat
Somewhat
Yes
Yes
Somewhat
Yes
Somewhat
Somewhat
Somewhat
Somewhat
Yes
Somewhat
Yes
Yes
Yes
Somewhat
Yes
Yes
Somewhat
Yes
Yes
Somewhat

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

2,500
5,000
4,000
5,000
4,000
5,000
5,000
4,000
4,000
5,000
5,000
5,000
4,000
3,000
5,000
4,000
5,000
5,000
4,000
5,000
5,000
5,000
5,000
4,000
4,000
5,000
5,000
4,000
5,000
4,000
3,444
3,200
4,000
5,000
4,000
5,000
5,000
5,000
4,000
4,900
5,000
4,000
4,000
5,000
1,080
34 of 43

 PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II

Friends of the East Cleveland Public Library †
From Me 2 U †
FrontLine Service
Front Steps Housing and Services
FutureHeights
Gardening in the District †*
Good Company: A Vocal Ensemble
Graffiti HeArt*
Harvard Community Services Center †
Hasani Management †*
Henry Johnson Center †*
Hispanic Alliance †
Hispanic Business Center †
Hispanic Police Officers' Association †*
Historic Gateway Neighborhood Corporation
Hummingbird Project
iN Education †*
India Festival USA †
International Community Council
International Women's Air & Space Museum
Italian Cultural Garden Foundation
Jewish Family Service Association of Cleveland Ohio
Joseph's Home*
Joyful Noise Neighborhood Music School
Lake City Fuse
Lake Erie Native American Council †
Lake View Cemetery Foundation
LakewoodAlive
Larchmere PorchFest
LatinUs Theater Company †
LGBT Community Center of Greater Cleveland
Little Italy Redevelopment Corporation
Little Lumpy's Center for Educational Initiatives †*
LYLESART †
Malachi Center
May Dugan Center
Merrick House
MorrisonDance
Mt.Pleasant NOW Development Corporation †
NAMI Greater Cleveland
Negative Space Gallery †
New Avenues to Independence
No Exit
North Union Farmers Market
Northeast Ohio Alliance for Hope †*

Somewhat
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Somewhat
Yes
Somewhat
Yes
Somewhat
Yes
Yes
Somewhat
Somewhat
Yes
Yes
Somewhat
Somewhat
Yes
Yes
Somewhat
Yes
Yes
Somewhat
Yes
Yes
Somewhat
Somewhat
Yes
Yes
Yes
Somewhat
Somewhat
Yes
Yes
Yes
Somewhat
Yes
Yes
Yes
Somewhat
Yes
Yes
Yes
Somewhat

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

4,000
5,000
4,980
5,000
5,000
4,000
5,000
4,000
5,000
4,000
5,000
5,000
4,000
4,000
5,000
5,000
4,000
4,000
5,000
5,000
4,000
5,000
1,000
3,600
5,000
5,000
4,000
4,000
5,000
5,000
5,000
3,600
4,000
5,000
3,600
5,000
4,000
5,000
5,000
5,000
4,000
4,354
5,000
5,000
4,000
35 of 43

 PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II
PS II

Notes for Notes
Ohio City Incorporated
Organization of Chinese Americans Greater Cleveland †
P.A.L.S. for Healing
Parma Area Fine Arts Council
Parma Heights Historical Society*
Polish Village Parma
Quire Cleveland
Reaching Heights
Refresh Collective
Restore Cleveland Hope †
RollinBuckeyez Foundation †
Sankofa Fine Art Plus †
Schuhplattler und Trachtenverein Bavaria
Shaker Arts Council
Slovenian Museum and Archives
SOS: Strengthening Our Students †
Suburban Symphony Orchestra
Symphony West
Tender Hearts Crusades †*
The Harvard Square Center †
The Movement Project
The Refugee Response*
The Roberto Ocasio Foundation †
Thea Bowman Center †
Union Miles Development Corporation †
UpStage Players
Ursuline College
Wake Up And Live’s Actors Studio †
West Creek Conservancy
West Shore Chorale
West Side Catholic Center
Western Reserve Chorale
Western Reserve Fire Museum
Western Reserve Land Conservancy
Westlake Chinese Culture Association †
Westlake-Westshore Arts Council*
Westown Community Development Corporation
Windsong, Cleveland's Feminist Chorus*
Women In History
Woodland Cemetery Foundation

Yes
Somewhat
Yes
Yes
Somewhat
Somewhat
Yes
Somewhat
Yes
Yes
Somewhat
Yes
Yes
Somewhat
Yes
Yes
Somewhat
Somewhat
Somewhat
Yes
Somewhat
Somewhat
Yes
Somewhat
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Somewhat
Somewhat
Yes
Yes
Somewhat
Yes
Somewhat
Somewhat
Somewhat
Yes
Yes
Somewhat
Somewhat

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

5,000
4,000
5,000
5,000
2,000
4,000
5,000
4,000
5,000
5,000
4,000
5,000
5,000
4,000
5,000
5,000
3,600
4,000
4,000
5,000
4,000
4,000
5,000
4,000
5,000
5,000
5,000
5,000
4,000
4,000
5,000
5,000
4,000
5,000
4,000
4,000
2,230
5,000
5,000
2,400
4,000

36 of 43

 APPENDIX 2: Reference for Board Actions
Applicants Not Recommended for Funding

2020 Project Support I
The following organizations scored below 75.00:
1. ARTneo – Panel Score: 70.6
2. BlueWater Chamber Orchestra – Panel Score: 57
3. Cleveland School of Dance – Panel Score: 66.8
4. Notre Dame College – Panel Score: 71.2
2020 Project Support II
The following organizations received a majority of “no” votes from the panel, indicating that they did not
provide evidence throughout the application that funding criteria were met:
1. City Ballet of Cleveland
2. Cleveland Blues Society
3. Naach Di Cleveland
4. Photo Haus

37 of 43

 MEMORANDUM
Date:
To:
From:
Re:

November 13, 2019
CAC Board of Trustees
CAC Program Staff: Heather Johnson-Banks, Dan McLaughlin, Luis Gomez
General Operating Support: approval of 2020-21 panel scores and 2020 grant amounts

SUMMARY
Cuyahoga Arts & Culture’s General Operating Support (GOS) program strengthens the community by
providing meaningful, multi-year core support grants to arts and cultural organizations based in and serving
Cuyahoga County. Staff is pleased to recommend GOS grants to the Board for 65 organizations totaling
$10,200,000 for the 2020 GOS program.
Detailed background information on the GOS program, 2020-21 application cycle, and two Board decision
points are included within this memo. In addition, the following summarizes the key points and actions
outlined within the document.


As stated in the GOS guidelines approved at the April 2019 Board meeting, organizations receiving
four consecutive years of funding (2015-2018), including at least one round of GOS, are qualified to
receive GOS grants in 2020 and 2021 without taking part in the panel process. There are 61
organizations that meet these criteria and are recommended for funding today.



CAC held an interactive panel for new applicants and made no policy changes to the program
guidelines or funding formula since the last cycle.



CAC received 5 applications and recommends grants to 4 of the applicant organizations. In total,
this will result in 65 organizations receiving 2020-21 GOS grants.



In line with CAC’s values, policies and practices, staff actively worked to provide education and
training to applicants to allow for success throughout the GOS process.

Board Actions
At the November 13 meeting, we recommend that the Board approve 2020-21 General Operating Support
(GOS):
1) panel scores; and
2) 2020 grant amounts.

38 of 43

 I. BACKGROUND
A consistent approach to operating support
The 2020-21 General Operating Support (GOS) cycle marks the sixth time CAC has offered its core support grant
program. Each cycle the program has remained steadfastly committed to supporting Cuyahoga County-based
organizations that have:
 a primary mission to create, provide, present or produce arts or cultural services for the public; and
 a history of vibrant artistic or cultural programming;
GOS continues to provide meaningful grants to organizations of all sizes and receives the largest allocation of
funds of any of our grant programs.
In April, CAC’s Board of Trustees approved General Operating Support guidelines that provided a path into the
General Operating Support program for new applicants. These guidelines also continued the panel and application
exemption for all of current grant recipients.
In response to applicant feedback, CAC piloted an interactive panel in 2017. CAC continued this model in 2019
with a couple of improvements. Applicants were provided with initial questions from panelists in advance of the
panel review to help them prepare. Following the 8-10-minute review from panelists, applicants were given 5
minutes to respond and 5 minutes for additional Q&A with panelists.
II. RECOMMENDED GRANTEE POOL OVERVIEW & TRAININGS
All applicants were familiar with the CAC process
All 5 applicants to the 2020-21 GOS program had received either Project Support or GOS funding from CAC in
the past. Every grant recipient receiving 2018-19 GOS funding (61) is recommended for GOS funding in the next
cycle.
Recommended organizations have budgets of all sizes
As demonstrated by the chart below, the organizations recommended for General Operating Support funding have
budgets of all sizes. Fifty-five precent of organizations receiving funding have budgets of under $1 million, *based
on the ERS forms submitted by each orgnaization.

Recommended Organizations by Average Budget Size*
20
18
16
14
12
10
8
6
4
2
0

18
16

11
9

3

3

3

2
0

Up to
$199K

$200K to
$499K

$500Kto
$999K

$1M to
$4.99M

$5M to
$9.99M

$10M to
$19.99M

$20M to
$29.99M

$30M to
$39.99M

$40M+

39 of 43

 CAC prepared applicants for success
CAC provided a number of opportunities to prepare applicants for success in the application process. Highlights
of this work include:




Staff led workshops for new applicants in May and June that provided attendees with overview
information on the funding criteria and process.
Given the limited number of new applicants, staff held one-on-one conversations with each organization
interested in General Operating Support as part of the eligibility check process to ensure that the GOS
program was the right fit for the applicant.
Staff continued to offer individual, in-person office hours for all applicant organizations to provide
personal assistance in navigating the application process and assist in developing strong applications. Staff
met with some organizations multiple times during the 2018-19 grant cycle to provide support, in addition
to more informal interactions and phone calls.

III. PANEL REVIEW MEETING
Panelists and day-of panel process
Five qualified arts and culture professionals from outside Ohio served as 2020-21 General Operating Support
panelists. They represented a diverse cross-section of individuals with expert knowledge of specific arts or cultural
disciplines, management/financial experience, as well as prior panel experience. More information on this year’s
panelists can be found in the Panelist Memo included in this packet.
Panelists reviewed five applications on September 25 during a public meeting at the Idea Center at Playhouse
Square. Each application was deliberated on and scored by the panel in accordance with the funding criteria from
page 10 of the 2020-21 GOS Grant Program Guidelines. Representatives from all applicant organizations, as well
as several other community members, attended the panel review. As in previous years, the panel review was also
audio-streamed live from the CAC website. CAC had 26 unique visitors listen online and 12 in-person visitors the
day of the panel review. CAC distributed an Audience Guide to help all in-person and online observers understand
the panel review process.
Interactive panel
CAC continued an interactive panel process piloted in 2017, where applicants were able to respond to panelist
comments and engage with them in a Q&A session, before panelists finalized their scores. This change came in
direct response to feedback from our past applicants, who expressed a desire to bring their work to life for panelists
outside of the limits of the application and clarify information. To improve on the 2017 process, applicants were
provided with panelists’ initial questions in advance of the in-person review in order to prepare.
Using audio recordings as educational tools
The 2020-21 GOS panel review meetings were recorded for the public record and will be accessible on the CAC
website. The audio clips serve as excellent educational tools. CAC staff encourages all applicants, whether or not
they are funded, to share the links with their staff and boards.
Seeking feedback
At the conclusion of the panel review meeting on September 25, CAC invited audience members and panelists to
participate in an informal public comment session. That discussion is recorded on its own track and accessible on
our website. Staff uses this feedback to inform our future work. In addition, CAC will survey all panelists and
applicants. The feedback will be helpful as we look ahead to the next cycle.
IV. LOOKING FORWARD
Pending Board approval of 2020 grants, staff immediately turns to pre-planning for the 2022-23 cycle. In early
December, CAC will assess what worked and what can be improved, asking ourselves: what do we want to achieve
through General Operating Support and how might we continue to evolve the program to reach these goals?

40 of 43

 BOARD ACTION #1: Approve panel scores.
At the November 13 meeting, the Board will be asked to approve the 2020-21 GOS panel scores.
 See Appendix for a list of total scores of the 65 applicants recommended and the organization not
recommended for funding.

CAC’s Funding Criteria
To reflect CAC’s role as a public funder–committed to using public dollars to benefit the public–Public
Benefit is weighted more heavily than the other funding criteria. The funding criteria for 2020-21 GOS
are:




Public Benefit (45 points maximum)
Artistic or Cultural Vibrancy (35 points maximum)
Organizational Capacity (20 points maximum)

Scoring Background
Panelists reviewed and scored each application on a point scale from 1 to 100 based on the funding criteria.
The panelists’ scores were averaged for each application to determine the panel score. All applicants that
received a panel score of 75.00 or higher have been recommended for a grant. Any applicant with a panel
score lower than 75.00 is not recommended to receive funding.
Board Action #1: Panel Scores
Scores for 4 out of 5 applicant organizations were higher than 75.00, and are recommended for funding.
For a full listing of total scores, see Appendix.

BOARD ACTION #2: Approve grant amounts.
At the November 13 meeting, the Board will be asked to approve 2020 General Operating Support grant
amounts.


See Appendix for a list of all 65 organizations and the recommended grant amounts.

Calculating Grant Amounts
GOS grant amounts are determined by a consistent formula that is designed to generate an equitable
distribution of funding to recommended organizations by considering several factors including:
 Each organization’s average adjusted operating budget for fiscal years 2016, 2017 and 2018;
 Each organization’s average operating budget relative to the combined budgets of all other
organizations within the GOS pool; and
 The total amount CAC allocated to the GOS program this year ($10.2M).
For additional background on how CAC’s funding formula works, see our Funding Formula FAQ.
Board Action #2: Grant Amounts
In order to determine grant amount recommendations, CAC applied the method outlined above. If
approved, the 2020 GOS portfolio will be made up of 65 grants totaling $10,200,000.

41 of 43

 APPENDIX: Reference for Board Actions
2020-21 General Operating Support
Total Scores and Funding Recommendations (listed alphabetically)

Organization
Apollo's Fire
Art House
Art Therapy Studio
Artists Archives of the Western Reserve
Arts Cleveland
BAYarts
Beck Center for the Arts
Broadway School of Music and the Arts
Center for Arts-Inspired Learning
Chagrin Valley Little Theatre
Children's Museum of Cleveland
Cleveland Botanical Garden
Cleveland Institute of Art
Cleveland Institute of Music
Cleveland International Film Festival
Cleveland International Piano Competition
Cleveland Jazz Orchestra
Cleveland Museum of Art
Cleveland Museum of Natural History
Cleveland Play House
Cleveland POPS Orchestra
Cleveland Public Theatre
Cleveland Restoration Society
Collective Arts Network
Contemporary Youth Orchestra
DANCECleveland
Dancing Wheels
Dobama Theatre
Dunham Tavern Museum
Ensemble Theatre
Great Lakes Science Center
Great Lakes Theater
GroundWorks DanceTheater
Heights Arts
ICA - Art Conservation
ideastream
Ingenuity

Board Action #1

Board Action #2

Total Score
94.8
74.4
84.8
90.8
89.6

Grant Amount
$
104,031
$
19,641
$
45,545
$
23,401
$
54,131
$
57,017
$
129,016
$
19,553
$
95,371
$
31,854
$
69,804
$
193,947
$
548,585
$
547,099
$
151,398
$
56,170
$
27,492
$
936,686
$
492,147
$
313,809
$
62,803
$
104,107
$
71,797
$
$
29,216
$
48,961
$
37,315
$
45,877
$
20,370
$
14,201
$
250,265
$
181,437
$
44,633
$
25,111
$
80,198
$
618,996
$
37,379

42 of 43

 Inlet Dance Theatre
Karamu House
Lake Erie Ink
Lake Erie Nature & Science Center
LAND studio
Maltz Museum of Jewish Heritage
Morgan Conservatory
Museum of Contemporary Art Cleveland
Nature Center at Shaker Lakes
Near West Theatre
North Coast Men's Chorus
Playhouse Square
Progressive Arts Alliance
Rainey Institute
Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum
Roots of American Music
Shaker Historical Society
SPACES
The Cleveland Opera
The Cleveland Orchestra
The Music Settlement
The Musical Theater Project
The Sculpture Center
The Singing Angels
Ukrainian Museum-Archives
Valley Art Center
Verb Ballets
Western Reserve Historical Society
Zygote Press

-

$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

25,634
90,349
24,076
77,226
157,993
132,993
24,830
139,190
73,567
60,049
25,341
1,164,989
49,127
79,915
748,681
20,873
13,475
34,197
16,693
1,045,644
180,052
43,848
16,624
29,610
15,280
33,940
39,864
216,835
29,743

43 of 43

 