 -
summrt PD Page 1 of 2

SUMMIT COUNTY DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES BOARD
COMBINED WORK SESSION REGULAR MEETING

Thursday, November 21, 2019
Administrative Board Room
5:30 pm.

WORK SESSION

DISCUSSION ONLY ITEMS
I. SUMMIT DD 2020 ACTION PLAN

 

II. FACILITIES RENOVATIONS PROJECT
SUCCESS4KIDZ THERAPY CONTRACT

IV. SUMMIT COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF JOB FAMILY SERVICES ON-SITE ASSISTANCE
CONTRACT

V. NORTHEAST OHIO NETWORK CONTRACT FAMILY ENGAGEMENT PROGRAM
VI. SUMMIT COUNTY FAMILY AND CHILDREN FIRST COUNCIL CONTRACT

VII. GARDINER CONTRACT

PRIMARY SOLUTIONS CONTRACT

ACTION FOR BOARD CONSIDERATIQN DISCUSSED PREVIOUSLY

IX. SUMMIT COUNTY CONTRACT

X. ALTURA CONTRACTS

NEW ACTION ITEMS FOR BOARD CONSIDERATION
XI. OCTOBER FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

II.



IV.

VI.

VII.



IX.

m1 0
(u DD Pagan?

BOARD MEETING

CALL TO ORDER

CAUCUS - BOARD MEMBERS: ADDITIONAL AGENDA ITEMS
CAUCUS - SUPERINTENDENT

PUBLIC COMMENT

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
A. OCTOBER 24, 2019 (combined Work Session/Regular Meeting)

BOARD ACTION ITEMS
A. FINANCE FACILITIES COMMITTEE
1. SUMMIT COUNTY CONTRACT

2. ALTURA CONTRACTS

3. OCTOBER FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

REPORT
A. OACB ANNUAL CONFERENCE DELEGATE ASSEMBLY

COMMENTS

ADJOURN

Attachment #1
Summit County Developmental Disabilities Board

 

 

TOPIC SUMMARY REPORT
TOPIC RECOMMENDATION
2020 Action Plan Ohio Administrative Code requires Approve the 2020 Action Plan

each county board to adopt by
resolution a strategic plan. The
Board approved the 2019 2021
Long Range Plan in October 2018.
The 2020 Action Plan outlines the
action items Summit DD will carry
out during the second year of the
Long Range Plan.

 

 

 

 

SUPPORTING DA TA FOR RECOMMENDA TI 0?

 

 

Summit Board approved the 2019 2021 Long Range Plan that updated the mission, vision,
values and three-year goals of the Agency. Each year, Summit DD creates an action plan that
outlines speci?c action items that will be implemented to achieve the three-year goals 0f the Long
Range Plan. Action items in 2020 include:

Goal 1: To ensure quality services while we cultivate opportunities for people to feel included.
Partner with providers to enhance services to individuals we support.

Connect individuals to an array of residential options in the community.

Increase access and support for multi-system youth.

Enhance supports for transition?age youth.

Ensure Early Intervention services meet growing demand for services.



Goal 2: To empower an engaged workforce that achieve the best outcomes for people we
support.

6. Recruit aquali?ed, diverse pool of candidates.

7. Implement a performance management system.

8. Implement work systems that support the needs of those we support.

Goal 3: To ensure that our system is sustainable for future generations.
9. Address the needs of those on the wait list.
10.Implement facilities use plan.
11. Continue to re?ne long-term ?nancial forecasts.
12. Use data to drive organizational excellence.

Feedback from individuals, families/guardians, and providers will be gathered over the next month.

Recommended for approval by the November Finance Facilities and
Services and Supports Committees. To be reviewed by the December LR Committee.

 

 

Submitted By: Billie Jo David For: Superintendent/Assistant Superintendent
Finance Facilities Committee
Date: 11/4/19 Services Supports Committee

 

 

Committee

 

 

?1



(V summlt DD 

all:

 

Summit DD
2020 Action Plan

2019 202] Long Range 

SummitDD 3306346000 [SummitDD?rg

 

Mission
Helping people of all abilities reach their full potential, one person at a time.

Vision
Summit County is a community where people feel included.

Values
Respect - Collaboration Innovation - Inclusion Excellence Trust

Trust

We want to earn the trust of people we support with every interaction. We realize that this can only be
accomplished by delivering on our promises and remaining transparent. It is an honor that people
accept us into their lives and we will not take that for granted.

Respect
We will actively listen to people we support to understand where they are on their journey and what
they want to achieve next. We respect people?s choices about their lives.

Collaboration
We will partner with those we support every step of the way. We will work with community
organizations to build relationships that open doors for those we support.

Innovation

We consistently look for ways to challenge the status quo. We create new opportunities that provide
more choices for people of all abilities. We encourage our staff to pursue opportunities to better their
skills and knowledge.

inclusion

We believe that everyone has a right to live a life where they feel included in their community. We also
understand that community means something different to each person. We are committed making
connections that are meaningful to those we support, building a community that only sees opportunity
in each other.

Excellence

We believe those we support, parents and the community deserve our very best and we are committed
to giving it. We will work to understand the needs and expectations of those we support and continually
find ways to meet and exceed those expectations.

Draft 2020 Action Plan, Updated 11/8/2019

Long Range Plan Goals
Goal 1: To ensure quality services while we cultivate opportunities for people
to feel included.

Our role is to listen to people we serve, identify outcomes, and connect people to paid or natural
support that will help achieve their goals. We will remain person?centered to ensure each person
receives the highest quality of services possible as we create opportunities that provide meaningful
community connections.

Objectives include:

0 Build meaningful relationships with people we support to shape person-centered outcomes.

- Ignite the community as a natural support.

0 In partnership with our provider community, build a culture in the direct service professional
community that is committed to achieving people?s outcomes

Ensure Early Intervention services meet growing demand for services.

Ohio?s biennium budget increased its investment in Early Intervention This investment allows
infants with a diagnosis of Neonatal Abstinence (fetal exposure to addictive substances) or
elevated blood lead levels to become automatically eligible for Ohio El. Summit County has experienced
a dramatic increase in the number of children and families who receive El services over the past three
years, and expect that growth will continue. We will review our processes from intake and eligibility
determination, to service coordination, to the provision of services to ensure family have timely access
to quality EI services.

Increase access and support for multi-system youth.

Ohio has invested significant funding to support youth and families who are involved in multiple
systems, with a goal of preventing custody relinquishment for the sole purpose of receiving needed
services. Summit DD will continue to coordinate with agencies that make up Summit County?s Family
and Children First Council to locally support Board eligible children with complex needs. Summit DD will
collaborate with our community partners to enhance supports to multi?system youth, with the goal of
keeping families together.

Enhance supports for transition-age youth.

Graduates from high school have many choices to make about their futures, youth with disabilities face
the same choices. Summit DD has a dedicated team of Service and Support Administrators (SSAs) that
will explore these choices with individuals and families. Summit DD has partnered with local schools to
develop pilot programs with the goal of graduates becoming college or career ready. Summit DD will
use the outcomes and learning from those pilots to expand the pilot to additional school districts and
grade levels.

Connect individuals to an array of residential options in the community.

Summit DD will use information about the desired residential outcomes identified in the individual
service plans to develop residential options in the community. We will collaborate with residential
agencies, such as Akron Metropolitan House Authority, and landlords to support people in a variety of

Draft 2020 Action Plan, Updated 11/8/2019

residential settings that meet their needs. From independent living, to drop in support, to 24/7
supports, adults should enjoy the right to choose where they live within what they can afford.

Partner with providers to enhance services to individuals we support.

In 2019 Summit DD received a grant from the Ohio Association of County Boards to participate in a
provider partnership pilot. The collaborative work group developed priorities for 2020 to enhance
services to those we serve. Summit DD will take an active role in supporting the retention and
recruitment of direct care professionals. The work group will develop quality indicators for the provision
of services. Summit DD will provide a greater level of support and coordination for providers who serve
people with complex behavioral needs. Finally, Summit DD will use feedback from providers through a
survey to review its current provider support practices to ensure they meet the needs of the provider
community.

Goal 2: To empower an engaged workforce that achieve the best outcomes for
people we support.

Our employees are our greatest asset as we work to achieve our mission and vision. We will continue to
cultivate an energized and diverse team and ensure they have the knowledge, skills, and tools to meet
and exceed the expectations of those we support.

Objectives include:

0 Foster a culture that reflects our core values
0 Build work systems that support organizational performance excellence.

Recruit a quali?ed, diverse pool of candidates.

Through the creation of the 2019-2021 Long Range Plan, Summit DD updated its Mission, Vision, and
Core Values. A team of Summit DD staff translated these core values into core competencies that
individuals, families and the community should expect of all employees. In 2020, the Agency will fecus
its efforts on ensuring position descriptions reflect these core competencies and recruitment efforts
produce a qualified, diverse candidate pool for vacant positions. Summit DD will implement a talent
management system that effectively sources vacant positions and streamlines the onboarding process.

Implement a performance management system.

Summit DD will enhance job descriptions, onboarding, orientation and training to ensure core
competencies are systematically demonstrated across the workforce. To accomplish this the Agency will
implement an employee development program that focuses on regular coaching and continuous
development of employees.

Implement work systems that support the needs of those we support.

As supports for those we serve become more community-based, our employees must also be more
community-based to meet the needs of those we serve, at times that are more convenient for those we
serve. Summit DD will review workplace policies and procedures, technology, and space needs to
support a community-based workforce.

Draft 2020 Action Plan, Updated 11/8/2019

Goal 3: To ensure that our system is sustainable for future generations.

Summit DD has experienced an increased number people eligible for services, along with declining
revenues. We will build a financially sustainable service delivery model to ensure funding is available to
support the health, safety and quality of life of people we serve well into the future.

Objectives include:

- Maximize alternative revenue streams.

0 Ensure that the allocation of local resources are aligned to outcomes that move us closer to our
mission and vision.

a Right-size our facilities to meet future needs.

Address the needs of those on the wait list.

Beginning September 1, 2018, every county board of developmental disabilities will use a statewide
assessment process to evaluate the needs of each person requesting services from the county board,
and to assess the needs of individuals who are on the transitional waiting list. The assessment will help
determine if there is a need for service that is not being met. If the individual has an immediate need, it
will be met within 30 days. If an individual has an unmet need that is not a threat to their health and
safety, the individual may be placed on a current needs waiting list. Summit DD will annually review the
needs of the individuals on the current needs waiting list and will allocate resources to meet those
needs based on available funding.

Implement facilities use plan.

In 2019 Summit DD announced plans to renovate its Barberton and Cuyahoga Falls workshops into office
space for the Agency?s 280 employees (pending board approval in 2019), drastically reducing the total
amount of square feet and acreage the Agency maintains. The next phase of the facilities use project
involve the detailed design of the remodeled facilities and the request for proposal for future
construction. Summit DD will continue to work with stakeholders on the future use or sale of current
buildings.

Continue to refine long-term financial forecasts.

Summit DD has realized drastic growth in the number of adults and kids eligible for services over the past
five years. This drastic growth has resulted in an increase in spending on services for eligible individuals,
with revenue remaining fairly flat. Despite this growth the Agency has remained fiscally responsible and
has maintained a fund balance that protects services for individuals. However, it is projected that deficit
spending to meet the growing demand for services could impact the future fund balance. The Agency will
identify future growth, revenue and expenditure scenarios to create a longer-term financial forecast that
protects the health and welfare of those eligible for services.

Use data to drive organizational excellence.

Summit DD will examine how it selects, gathers, analyzes, manages, and improves its data, information,
and knowledge assets; how it learns; and how it manages information technology to improve
performance. The Agency will also align how it uses the review those findings to improve performance to
ensure it is consistent with current trends and best practices.

Draft 2020 Action Plan, Updated 11/8/2019

Attachment #2
Summit County Developmental Disabilities Board

 

 

TOPIC SUMMARY REPORT
TOPIC RECOMMENDATION
Facilities renovations Develop Barberton and Cuyahoga The Board approve the request for
and related activities Falls locations to convert into expenditures in an amount not to
office space exceed $10,610,000 to execute the
facilities plan

 

 

 

SUPPORTING DA TA FOR RECOMMENDA TI 0?

 

 

Summit DD recently completed an exercise related to future facilities planning and analysis. The
details of that exercise are summarized below and in the supporting documentation. This request
for funding will allow Summit DD the opportunity to enter into various agreements related to
redevelopment of Barberton and Cuyahoga Falls.

Summit DD conducted a data-driven study and analysis to determine how to best serve our
customers in all geographic areas while maximizing our current assets. This resulted in a
plan to redevelop our Barberton and Cuyahoga Falls locations.

We have been coordinating with the County and the cities of Barberton, Cuyahoga Falls, and
Tallmadge on various aspects related to our plans.

The City of Cuyahoga Falls has purchased property adjacent to our building and will be
funding and developing the creation of parking for use by Summit DD employees.

The Barberton location will be renovated at an estimated cost of $3,350,000

The Cuyahoga Falls location will be renovated and expanded at an estimated cost of
$6,580,000.

The data center (aka server room) at Admin is overdue for upgrades. The new network,
server, and storage equipment will be installed in Cuyahoga Falls at an estimated cost of
$680,000.

Various agreements will be required to develop and implement this plan, with a total cost not
to exceed $10,610,000.

Funding will be available in the 2019/2020 Permanent Improvement fund.

Recommended for approval by the
November Finance Facilities Committee.

 

Submitted By: Russ DuPlain For: Superintendent/Assistant Superintendent

Date:

Finance Facilities Committee
November 2019 Services Supports Committee
Committee

 

Estimated Expenses for Development of Cuyahoga Falls and Barberton

 

Existing building (square feet)
Expansion (square feet)

Barberton



 

Cuyahoga Falls

15,848
7,262

 

Total square feet

Hard Construction Cost

15,156

23,110

 

Furniture Fixtures Cost

Renovation and construction costs 5 1,472,954 5 3,129,990
Construction-related costs and fees 5 419,792 892,047
Construction contingencies 220,943 469,499
Total Hard Construction Cost 5 2,113,689 5 4,491,536

 

 

Architect 8: Engineering and Other Soft Cost

Modular offices, furniture, and fixtures 644,540 5 1,037,229
contingency 128,908 207,446
Total Furniture Fixtures Cost 5 773,443 5 1,244,575

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Fees (based on building costs) 3 144,828 307,756
Other site development and project costs 5 117,106 5 208,480
Moving and miscellaneous expenses 5 155,088 5 213,982
Soft cost contingencies 48,770 110,510
Total Soft Cost 5 465,792 5 840,728
Total Building Cost 5 3,352,929 5 6,576,938
Total Combined Building Costs (excluding contingencies) 5 8,743,792

Total Combined Building Contingencies 5 1,186,075

Total Combined Building Cost 9,929,867

Data Center Move 5 580,000

Data Center Move Contingency 5 100,000

Facilities Development Cost Estimates 20191114 Page 1 of 1

    

summit Facilities Project

 

Building our Fu?rure

Agenda

 

- High level facilities plan

- Sample of design concepts

Parking changes at Cuyahoga Falls

Project timing

- Workplace enhancements/data center
Costs

- Funding

Board action

 

High Level Facilities Plan

r9

 

Renovate Cuyahoga Falls and Barberton locations into
office spaces

Cuyahoga Falls will also be expanded by 7,262 sq. feet
(appx. 50% increase in size)

The City of Cuyahoga Falls has purchased adjacent
land and will devel0p parking

Exclusive use by Summit DD employees 7 am. 5 pm,
weekdays

Discussing a parking agreement and possible parking
lot enhancements with the City of Barberton

High Level Facilities Plan

 

Reduce total square footage maintained by Summit
DD from over 250,000 to approximately 38,000

Currently over half of our total square footage is vacant or
leased

Much of the existing space in use is very inefficient
Reduction of property from 43 acres to about 4-5 acres
Tallmadge campus will be vacated

Continuing discussions with the County and City of
Tallmadge to identify the future of the main campus

Archive Records and Facilities storage may be at a
different location

 

Sample Design Concepts Not Final Designs

 

 

 

Ba rberton DRAFT

 

 

-- - 

 

 

 

 

 

Sample Design Concepts Not Final Designs

 

Cuyahoga Falls

IEOJII 

r32

?iml

P2

 

?ll?

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cuyahoga

Falls -
. a Pro erties ac uired

Future 

by the City to

parking -. I. deV?l?pparking 

Summit DD
Cuyahoga Falls Canter

an on - 2
am Eir?? Dram arm. disgia - 339$

HARM: Mace. ammunmmr-M as me.



    

 

16951.6.-

51 

ownVb'lim :Ave

Barberton Cents-r

.n .. 
?mwa . 
. K. I . FUEL .

 

Barberton
- Parking

Project Timing

 

 

Board review and approval in Nov and Dec 2019
Select Construction Manager by Jan 2020

Design phase to begin in Jan 2020

Design, furniture selection, final site layouts, blueprints, etc
Will last around 8-9 months

Bids for renovations and construction will be handled
by the Construction Manager Sep Dec 2020

Construction phase to begin Jan 2021

City of Cuyahoga Falls expects to have parking completed by
the end of 2020

Barberton target move-in date Sep 2021
Cuyahoga Falls target move-in date Jan 2022

Workplace Enhancements Data Center

 

0 Establish new primary data center (server room) at
Cuyahoga Falls site
Cuy Falls is currently the data center disaster recovery site

Our primary data center (at Admin) is overdue for an upgrade; it
has been intentionally delayed to incorporate the design to work
with the future facilities plan

Location of the future disaster recovery site is still being evaluated

Numerous technology enhancements are in the works for
the next 1-2 years to improve our employees ability to be

mobile (phone system upgrade, electronic signatures, SharePoint
redesign, remote access to Gatekeeper, etc)

Will be developing workplace policies and procedures to
support remote work

 

10

Costs

 

Barberton: $3.35 

Barberton parking improvements expected to cost about
$350k (included in above total)

- Cuyahoga Falls: $6.58 

Summit DD will develop improved access traffic flow on
Board property (City of Cuy Falls is investing approximately
$2.5 to acquire land and develop adjacent parking)

- Data center (aka ?server room?) relocation: S680k

$580k for new hardware, software, and installation costs
S100k contingency

Total cost of project $10.61 

11

Funding

 

- $5.89 currently available in Capital fund

Not including est. $2.24 upcoming Cost Report settlement
funds earmarked for Capital fund

- Sale of buildings and assets will feed into Capital fund
Estimated $2.50 in proceeds

Total current future available funding: $10.63 
Operational savings - Current facilities operating expenses
vs expected operating expenses at future sites
Expected savings of over $600k year
ROI of 17.4 years, not factoring in cost avoidance below

Cost avoidance: HVAC, Roof, Electrical at Admin $4 
a ROI of 10.8 years factoring in repairs needed on Admin building

to

12

Board Actions

 

- Seeking Board approval for budget amount not to exceed
$10,610,000 in funding to execute the facilities plan
Renovate Barberton at an estimated cost of $3.35 

Renovate and expand Cuyahoga Fall-s at an estimated cost of
$6.58 

Relocate data center (server room) at an estimated cost of $680k

Authority for Superintendent to enter into contracts required to
execute the facilities plan (for example Architecture services,
Construction Management, etc)

- Future Board action items
Divesting of facilities and unneeded assets

13

Attachment #3

Summit County Developmental Disabilities Board

 

 

 

TOPIC SUMMARY REPORT
TOPIC CONCERN RECOMMENDA HON
Contract with Ensuring availability of consultative Recommend that the Board approve a
Success4Kidz Therapy, therapy services in our evidence- one-year contract with Success4Kidz
LLC (54K) to provide based early intervention model. Therapy for the period 1/1/20 to
consultative PT and 12/31/20, for a total contract amount
OT services for the not to exceed $466,500.
Early Intervention
program.

 

 

 

SUPPORTING DA TA FOR RECOMMENDA HON
Service Area: Early Intervention
aflndividuals CurrentIyServed by54K: 188 kids on caseload, 1,902 visits completed in 9
months
Amount of Increase: $10,000

 

Success 4 Kidz (54K) has been providing consultative therapy services for the Board since 2007. Summit DD
follows the evidence-based early intervention model recommended by the Ohio Department of Developmental
Disabilities. This model provides consultative, in home services to families through a coaching approach. 54K
agrees to follow this approach and support Summit Early Intervention program in this manner by:

. Participating in evaluations to determine eligibility for Early Intervention service.

. Meeting weekly as a team with HMG Service Coordinators and Developmental Specialists to ensure that
families are supported by one primary service provider who is backed by a team of support
professionals.

- Adding OT and PT staff to the team of professionals who can serve as Primary Service Provider. This
allows the team to select from not only the Developmental Specialist and Speech Therapist but also the
OT and PT. Allowing for the best ?t for each family.

In the past 9 months, 54K has completed 1,902 home visits acting both as the primary service provider and
secondary service provider. This is an average of 211 visits per month which is an increase of 16 visits a
month from last year. This increase is consistent with the increase in children eligible for early intervention
services. They also act as the primary service provider for 98 families and as secondary service provider for
90 families.? They also serve 16 children 3-5 years old and collaborate with the Inclusion program to help
promote inclusion in child care centers.

 

i
I In 2017, services provided in this contract were put out to bid through the RFP process. The intent will be to
do that again at the and of this contract period.

Costs are billed hourly at $75 per hour or $18.75 per unit of service which is the standard Medicaid rate.

Funds are in the 2020 budget.
Recommended for approval by the Services Supports and Finance Facilities.

 

 

Submitted By: _Holly Brugh For: Superintendent/Assistant Superintendent
Finance Facilities Committee
Date: _November 2019 Services Supports Committee

Committee

 

SERVICE CONTRACT
. BETWEEN
(I summlt COUNTY or SUMMIT
3ft! DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES BOARD
AND
SUCCESS 4 KIDZ THERAPY, LLC

 

 

This Contract, entered into by and between the Summit County Developmental Disabilities
Board, a Board authorized, created and appointed under the provisions of Chapter 5126 of the Ohio
Revised Code, with its principal office at 89 East Howe Road, Tallmadge, Ohio 44278, hereinafter
referred to as ?Summit and Success 4 Kid: Therapy, LLC with its principal office located at 1089
Scenicrest St. NW, Uniontown, Ohio 44685, hereinafter referred to as ?Contractor?, recites that:

WHEREAS, the parties desire to enter into a Contract whereby the Summit DD will provide
reimbursement to Success 4 Kid: Therapy, LLC for Occupational and Physical Therapy Services
embedded within an evidence-based early intervention model.

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein, the parties do hereby
agree as follows:

I. SUMMIT DD OBLIGATIONS

A. Summit DD shall monitor the quality of services delivered under this Contract in the following
manner: reports, documentation reviews and/or site visits. In the event of an adverse
finding, Summit DD will share the results of said finding with the Contractor, and initiate
corrective action to improve the quality of services in accordance with that level of service which
is recognized as acceptable professional practice in the community in which services are
provided and in accordance with the standards established by Summit DD.

B. Summit DD shall review and evaluate the services delivered by Contractor on a continuing basis
to ensure that such Services are delivered in accordance with Part federal regulations, Ohio
Department of Developmental Disabilities policies and the individual's Individualized Family
Service Plan (IFSP). The results of said review and evaluation will be shared by Summit DD with
the Contractor.

II. CONTRACTOR OBLIGATIONS

A. Contractor shall maintain all necessary insurance coverage, licenses, certifications, registrations
and credentials required hereunder.

B. The Contractor agrees to provide occupational therapy (OT) and physical therapy (PT) services
and supports to the Early Intervention program in the following manner:

 

1. Contractor has a thorough understanding of Federal Part regulations and Ohio?s Early
Intervention system including its mission, vision and standards as outlined in Ohio
Administrative Code Chapter 5123-10 and will maintain and provide documentation as
required.

2. Contractor will participate in:

a. The evaluation of children, if necessary, to determine eligibility with Informed Clinical
Opinion and gather needed information to establish outcomes that are most important
to families;

b. The assessment of children to determine need for program planning;

c. Weekly team meetings that includes the development of strategies that are functional
to the family?s priorities, needs and interests, and focus on the child?s participation in
normal daily activities;

d. Enhancing other professionals' abilities to incorporate OT and/or PT strategies into
families? daily routines; and

e. Acting as the Primary Service Provider (PSP) and/or Secondary Service Provider (SSP).

3. Contractor will maintain competency in the use of the following assessment tools, including
but not limited to: Battelle DeveIOpmental Inventory?ll Hawaii Early Learning Profile
Assessment, Evaluation Programming System (AEPS)

4. Occupational Therapy Assistants and Physical Therapy Assistants will be monitored by
licensed therapists through at least quarterly documentation review and home visit
observations and in accordance with Ohio Law.

C. Contractor agrees to offer consultative support upon request by Summit DD to projects that
promote inclusion.

D. Contractor shall utilize Summit DD systems as requested including but not limited to JobRouter
for workflow, DocuWare for electronic files, and Gatekeeper for documentation of all case notes.

E. Contractor shall reply to and cooperate in arranging compliance with an identified program or
fiscal audit. Contractor is liable to Summit DD for any adverse findings that result from an action
it takes or fails to take in the implementation of its response to adverse audit findings.

F. Contractor shall comply with all professional licensure and certification requirements, including
but not limited to furnishing evidence of the following: Contractor shall conduct criminal
background investigations of all staff in accordance with Ohio Revised Code 5123.081.
Contractor shall require that all staff meet the Ohio Department of Developmental Disabilities
rules and regulations as applicable to Contractor. Contractor shall employ staff in sufficient
numbers and with sufficient academic background and/or experience to meet the training,
health, safety, social and personal needs of the individual as such needs are mutually agreed
upon by the parties. Contractor shall obtain training, which is acceptable to the Summit DD for
all staff providing services under this Contract. Contractor shall comply with all local, state and
federal requirements regarding non-discrimination, fair employment practices and wage/hour
standards, and shall not discriminate in the provision of services on the basis of race, color,

General Services 2
Rev 8.2013

disability, religion, sex or national origin. Contractor shall furnish the Summit DD with evidence
of appropriate state Iicensure and credentials as required for all personnel providing services
under this Contract.

G. Contractor agrees to participate in reflective meetings with Early Intervention
Management staff, and submit all such programmatic and financial information as may
reasonably be required by Summit DD:

1. To permit monitoring and evaluation of the faithful performance of services being rendered
under this contract; and

2. To allow effective program planning, service coordination and resource development.

H. Contractor shall give notice of incidents adversely affecting health and safety pertaining to
individuals receiving services under this Contract to the Summit Major Unusual Incident
(MUI) Unit, and shall provide other additional reports to the Summit DD and to such other
persons and/or agencies as is required by applicable state and federal law. "Major Unusual
Incidents" and "Unusual Incidents? shall be defined for purposes ofthis Contract as such term is
defined in the Ohio Administrative Code and Contractor shall notify the Summit
MUI Unit within the timelines spelled out in said rule. Notification shall be made by
submitting same to the Summit DD by electronic mail to or by
facsimile to 330.634.8553.

Contractor shall provide and maintain, in full force and effect, general liability insurance covering
the Contractor?s activities under this contract. This shall include coverage for liability or casualty
loss or claims arising from actions by or from the use or occupancy by Contractor of premises
used by the Contractor in performance of its duties under this contract. The Summit DD shall be
included as an additional insured on the Contractor?s liability insurance coverage. The Contractor
shall provide the Summit DD with a copy of the Contractor?s liability insurance policy before
providing services in accordance with the Contract. Such coverage shall be in an amount of no
less than Should the policy have a general aggregate limit, such
aggregate limit must not be less than $2,000,000.00.

J. Contractor shall comply with all applicable Workers' Compensation laws and acquire a certificate
of insurance, evidence of which must be produced to the Summit DD upon demand.

K. Contractor shall provide upon request of Summit DD the names and addresses of Contractor?s
current Board members.

L. Contractor shall indemnify, save and hold harmless the Summit DD and any agents or employees
thereof, from any and all claims, demands, actions, or causes of action of whatsoever nature or
character resulting from the performance of Contractor, its agents and/or employees, and shall
make good any loss, damage or injury without the loss to the Summit DD.

M. Contractor shall name the Summit DD as a source of funding in any audit, literature, brochure or

presentation.

General Services 3
Rev 8.2013

N. Employees of Contractor are not "public employees? for the purpose of membership in the Ohio
Public Employees Retirement System.

CONTRACTOR FINANCIAL OBLIGATIONS

A. Contractor will disclose for-profit or not?for-profit status on "Exhibit 1" attached hereto and
made part of this Contract and a complete list of names and addresses of any individuals or
organizations having a direct or indirect ownership or controlling interest of five percent or
more in the Contractor.

B. Contractor agrees to keep a regular book of accounts maintained on an accrual basis of
accounting and in such form as is consistent with generally accepted accounting principles. The
Contractor further agrees to submit an audit of its operation by an independent certified public
accountant annually. Summit DD, or its authorized representative, shall have access to the books
and records of the Contractor at any time during the normal business hours of the Contractor.

C. If Contractor is a non-federal entity that expends five-hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) or
more per year in federal awards, a single or program-specific audit shall be conducted in
accordance with OBM Circular No. Any audit made in accordance with this paragraph
shall be in lieu of any financial audit requirement under this Contract.

IV. CLAIMS AND PAYMENT

A. The amount of this Contract shall not exceed FOUR HUNDRED SIXTY SIX THOUSAND FIVE
HUNDRED DOLLARS and is limited to the Summit DDS 2020 appropriation.

B. Summit DD will pay Contractor at its usual and customary rate or the equivalent Medicaid rate,
whichever is lower, for services based upon actual services rendered as a team member and for
which there is appropriate documentation as set forth in this Contract. Payments will be made
by Summit DD on a basis upon receipt of invoice from Contractor.

V. TERM AND TERMINATION

A. The term of this Contract shall be from January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020.

B. This Contract may be terminated by Summit DD at any time for cause or for no cause by
providing the Contractor with notice in writing not less than ninety (90) days prior to terminating
this Contract.

C. In the event of a breach of any provision of this Contract, the non-breaching party may institute

Conciliation Procedures as set forth in "Exhibit 2? attached hereto and made a part of this
Contract. If the dispute is not resolved within the timeframes identified in the Conciliation

General Services 4
Rev 8.2013

Procedure, then the non-breaching party may terminate this Contract by written notice delivered
via certified mail.

VI. CONFIDENTIALITY
Contractor shall maintain the confidentiality of any records of individuals receiving service and
shall not disclose them except as permitted by law; provided, however, that the laws of Ohio and
the requirements of the Summit policies and procedures shall govern this provision. Any
information gathered through service delivery is the property of the Summit DD and may not be
released without a written authorization signed by the parent/guardian/individual served.

VII. DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROCESS FOR PERSONS SERVED
Contractor shall establish a procedure for affording individuals served due process as appropriate.
Contractor shall utilize this procedure in the event of a disagreement between the Contractor and
the individual related to the Contractor?s performance of its duties and obligations under this
Contract.

MISCELLANEOUS

A. STANDARDS
All services provided under this Contract shall be in accordance with applicable local, state and
federal rules and laws including but not limited to the requirements of Chapter?s 5123 and 5126
of the Ohio Revised Code, the rules and regulations of the Ohio Department of Developmental
Disabilities and any applicable requirements and regulations of the Summit DD.

B. ASSIGNMENT
Contractor may not assign this Contract or any part thereof without the written consent
of Summit DD.

C. ENTIRE CONTRACT
It is acknowledged by the parties that this Contract supersedes any and all previous
written or oral contracts between the parties concerning the subject matter of this Contract.
Exhibits attached hereto are adopted by reference as though fully rewritten herein.

D. NOTICES
Notices required to be given herein shall be in writing and shall be sent via certified mail
to the following respective addresses:

TO: Summit County
Developmental Disabilities Board
ATTENTION: Superintendent
89 East Howe Road
Tallmadge, Ohio 44278-1099

TO: Success 4 Kid:
Denise Ramos, President
1089 Scenicrest St. NW

General Services 5
Rev 8.2013

Uniontown, OH 44685

E. In the event that any statute, regulation, rule or state or federal law is amended, the parties shall
automatically amend the requirements ofthis Contract to reflect such modification without any
further action.

F. This Contract shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of Ohio.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties by their duly authorized representatives have executed this Contract.

SUCCESS 4 KIDZ COUNTY OF SUMMIT
DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES BOARD

 

 

 

 

 

 

Signature Date Signature Date
Print Name Print Name
Witness/ Date Witness Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM

OPINION NO.: 10-095

General Services 6

Rev 8.2013

MICHAEL D. TODD
ASSISTANT PROSECUTING A 
SUMMIT COUNTY, OHIO

EXHIBIT 1:

Status: Not-for-Profit For Profit

 

Names and addresses of any individuals or organizations having a direct or indirect ownership or control
interest of 5% or more in Contractor.

 

NAME ADDRESS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

General Services 7
Rev 8.2013

EXHIBIT 2

CONCILIATION PROCEDURE

In the event of disagreement between the parties as to their rights, duties and obligations under
the Contractor Agreement, the following procedure shall be implemented, at the written request of
either party:

STEP 

The Superintendent of the Summit DD or Chief Executive Officer of the contract agency shall indicate
and detail the specific problem or conflict situation in writing to the other Chief Executive
Officer/Superintendent with copies to the respective Board Chairpersons.

A meeting between the Executive Directors shall be scheduled to review the facts presented, obtain
additional factual material and agree on a proposed resolution within the context ofthe established
policies of the respective Boards within ten (10) working days after the original presentation of the issue.
If no such resolution is achieved, the parties shall move to Step II.

STEP  l

Within ten (10) days of outcome of Step l, written factual materials produced during Step detailing the
problem and the reasons for failure to resolve same shall be presented to the Chairpersons ofthe
respective Boards.

The Chairpersons will schedule within ten (10) working days a meeting which shall include the members
of the Executive Committee of the respective Boards or selected Board members to review the facts and
to make recommendations for resolution of the problem. Since resolution at this level may require
policy modification of one or both Boards, a period of thirty (30) working days will be allowed for final
resolution of problems at this level.

Neither party shall initiate any court action unless and until the conciliation procedure set forth in this
policy has been completed.

General Services 8
Rev 8.2013

Attachment #4
Summit County Developmental Disabilities Board

 

 

TOPIC SUMMARY REPORT
TOPIC CONCERN RECOMMENDATION
Contract with Renewal of contract for DJFS staff Approval of DJFS onsite assistance
Department 01? Jobs to work at Summit DD locations. contract effective January 1, 2020 to
and Family Services December 31, 2020.
for onsite assistance.
Contract amount not to exceed
$80,000.

 

 

 

SUPPORTING DA TA FOR REC OMMENDA TI ON

 

 

Service Area: SSA
of Individuals Currently Served: All Medicaid Enrollees
Amount of Increase: $2000

This contract is between Summit DD and the Summit County Department of Jobs Family Services
(DJFS), a collaboration that has been in effect since 2013.

Summit DD receives onsite assistance from a DJFS caseworker who maintains an of?ce at 89 East
Howe Rd., Tallmadge. The caseworker provides assistance with Medicaid enrollment, Medicaid
waivers, Healthy Start and food assistance programs. Persons served and families are able to work
with the DJFS staff without going to the Akron of?ces. In addition, the SSA department has direct
access to this worker on a daily basis.

The advantage of this arrangement allows for one caseworker to address "special issues and barriers
that delay Medicaid enrollment.

The JFS worker is supporting on average 32 people a month with Medicaid eligibility as it pertains to
a waiver and 9 additional people with community Medicaid. In addition, the worker is
supporting SSAs and individuals through an average of 82 phone calls and 187 emails each month.

Reimbursement will be made to DJFS on a basis in an amount not to exceed $80,000
annually. The increase of $2000 is to support a salary increase for the JFS worker.

Funds are available in the 2020 budget.

Recommended for approval by the November Services Supports
and Finance Facilities Committees.

 

 

 

 

Submitted By: Hollv Bruqh For: Superintendent/Assistant Superintendent
Finance Facilities Committee
Date: November 2019 Services Supports Committee

 

Committee

Attachment #5

Summit County Developmental Disabilities Board

 

 

TOPIC SUMMARY REPORT

TOPIC CONCERN RECOMMENDATION
Family Engagement . To approve contract with NEON for the
Program reimbursement Through for the ?scal administration of the Family
provided by North East Engagement. Pr ogram Engagement Program and annual dues
Ohio Network (NEON) Fiscal adm'?'5trat'?" 0f the Family in an amount not to exceed $621,000
Council of Governments Engagement Program for the period of January 1, 2020
(COG). Also includes Annual Dues through December 31, 2020.
Annual dues for NEON
services.

 

 

 

SUPPORHNG DA TA FOR RECOMMENDA HON

 

 

Service Area: SSA
of Individuals Curren?y Served: 705
Amount of Increase] Decrease: $0

NEON is a council of governments (COG) established under the authority of Chapter 167 of the Ohio Revised
Code. The primary purpose of NEON is to coordinate the power and duties of the member boards to better
bene?t and serve individuals with developmental disabilities in each of the NEON counties.

Summit DD contracts with NEON to act as a ?ow through for reimbursement of funds to individuals and families
using the Family Engagement Program (FEP). These funds allow individuals ages 0?22, without Medicaid
waivers, the ability to access up to $1800 of funding which they can use to participate in activities that enhance
their lives. These activities include: summer camps. community programs, school activities. therapy.
specialized equipment and technology supports.

To date. 705 families accessed FEP with the majority using funds to pay for both community based (61) and
specialized (223) camps. community clubs/classes (219) and adaptive equipment Families paid for the
goodslservices up front and upon an approved receipt, were then reimbursed for their expenses.

This contract allows NEON to deposit funds directly into a parents or guardians account for the reimbursement.
The total amount allocated to NEON for the Family Engagement Program is $605,000.

In addition. NEON will charge $12.50 per transaction in an administrative fee for a total not to exceeded
$10,000.

This contract also includes Summit DD's Annual Dues of $6,000.
TOTAL CONTRACT AMOUNT: $621,000

Funds are in the 2020 budget.

Recommended for approval by the Services 8: Supports and Finance Facilities

 

Submitted By: _Holly Brugh For: Superintendent/Assistant Superintendent
Finance Facilities Committee
Date: _November 2019 Services Supports Committee

Committee

 

 

SERVICE CONTRACT
. BETWEEN
summlt SUMMIT COUNTY
DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES BOARD
AND
North East Ohio Network

r.

 

 

 

This Contract, entered into by and between the Summit County Developmental Disabilities
Board, a Board authorized, created and appointed under the provisions Of Chapter 5126 of the Ohio
Revised Code, with its principal office at 89 East Howe Road, Tallmadge, Ohio 44278, hereinafter
referred to as ?Summit and North East Ohio Network, with its principal Office located at 5121

Mahoning Avenue, Suite 102, Austintown, Ohio 44515, hereinafter referred to as ?Contractor?, recites
that:

WHEREAS, the parties desire to enter into a Contract whereby Summit DD will provide
reimbursement to Contractor for processing payments to eligible individuals pursuant to Summit 
Family Engagement Program.

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein, the parties do
hereby agree as follows:

I. SUMMIT DD OBLIGATIONS

A. Summit DD shall monitor the quality Of services delivered under this Contract in the following
manner: Review documentation related tO the Family Engagement Program, random audits, and
other documents presented as appropriate. In the event of an adverse finding, Summit DD will
share the results of said finding with the Contractor, and initiate corrective action to improve the
quality Of services in accordance with that level of service which is recognized as acceptable
professional practice in the community in which services are provided and in accordance with the
standards established by Summit DD.

B. Summit DD is responsible to obtain and maintain supporting documentation of goods and/or
services purchased by eligible individuals and families through the Family Engagement Program
and for which payment is processed by Contractor under this Contract.

II. CONTRACTOR OBLIGATIONS

A. Contractor shall maintain all necessary insurance coverage, licenses, certifications, registrations
and credentials required hereunder.

B. Contractor is responsible to provide services as identified and more fully described in Exhibits A, 
and Of this Contract upon request Of Summit DD.

C. Contractor shall make available to Summit DD or its designated representative for review all
records and data pertaining to payments, Claims and services rendered to individuals under this

Contract. Contractor shall initiate corrective action where necessary to improve the quality of
services in accordance with that level of service which is recognized as acceptable professional
practice in the community in which services are provided.

D. Contractor shall reply to and cooperate in arranging compliance with an identified program or
fiscal audit. Contractor is liable to Summit DD for any adverse findings that result from an action
the Contractor takes or fails to take in the implementation of Contractor?s response to adverse
audit findings.

E. Contractor shall comply with all professional licensure and certification requirements, including
but not limited to furnishing evidence of the following: Contractor shall conduct criminal
background investigations of all staff in accordance with Ohio Revised Code 5123.081.
Contractor shall require that all staff meet the Ohio Department of Developmental Disabilities
rules and regulations as applicable to Contractor. Contractor shall employ staff in sufficient
numbers and with sufficient academic background and/or experience to meet the training,
health, safety, social and personal needs of the individual as such needs are mutually agreed
upon by the parties. Contractor shall obtain training, which is acceptable to the Summit DD for
all staff providing services under this Contract. Contractor shall comply with all local, state and
federal requirements regarding non-discrimination, fair employment practices and wage/hour
standards, and shall not discriminate in the provision of services on the basis of race, color,
disability, religion, sex or national origin. Contractor shall furnish the Summit DD with evidence
of appropriate state licensure and credentials as required for all personnel providing services
under this Contract.

F. Contractor agrees to submit all such programmatic and financial information as may reasonably
be required by Summit DD:

1. To permit monitoring and evaluation of the faithful performance of services being rendered
under this Contract; and

2. To allow effective program planning, service coordination and resource development.

G. Contractor shall give notice of incidents adversely affecting health and safety pertaining to
individuals receiving services under this Contract to the Summit Major Unusual Incident
Unit, and shall provide other additional reports to Summit DD and to such other persons
and/or agencies as is required by applicable state and federal law. "Major Unusual Incidents"
and ?Unusual Incidents? shall be defined for purposes ofthis Contract as such term is defined in
the Ohio Administrative Code 5123:2?17?02 and Contractor shall notify the Summit MUI
Unit within the timelines spelled out in said rule. Notification shall be made by submitting same
to the Summit DD by electronic mail to or by facsimile to
330.534.8553.

H. Contractor shall provide and maintain, in full force and effect, general liability insurance covering
the Contractor?s activities under this contract. This shall include coverage for liability or casualty
loss or claims arising from actions by or from the use or occupancy by Contractor of premises
used by the Contractor in performance of its duties under this contract. The Summit DD shall be
included as an additional insured on the Contractor?s liability insurance coverage. The Contractor

General Services 2
Rev 8.2013

IV.

shall provide the Summit DD with a copy of the Contractor's liability insurance policy before
providing services in accordance with the Contract. Such coverage shall be in an amount of no
less than Should the policy have a general aggregate limit, such
aggregate limit must not be less than $2,000,000.00.

Contractor shall comply with all applicable Workers' Compensation laws and acquire a certificate
of insurance, evidence of which must be produced to the Summit DD upon demand.

Contractor shall provide upon request of Summit DD the names and addresses of Contractor?s
current Board members.

The Contractor shall indemnify, save and hold harmless the Summit DD and any agents or
employees thereof, from any and all claims, demands, actions, or causes of action of whatsoever
nature or character resulting from the performance of Contractor, its agents and/or employees,
and shall make good any loss, damage or injury without the loss to the Summit DD.

Contractor shall name the Summit DD as a source of funding in any audit, literature, brochure or
presentation.

CONTRACTOR FINANCIAL OBLIGATIONS

Contractor will disclose for?profit or not-for-profit status on ?Exhibit 1" attached hereto and
made part ofthis Contract and a complete list of names and addresses of any individuals or
organizations having a direct or indirect ownership or controlling interest of five percent or
more in the Contractor.

The Contractor agrees to keep a regular book of accounts maintained on an accrual basis of
accounting and in such form as is consistent with generally accepted accounting principles. The
Contractor further agrees to submit an audit of its operation by an independent certified public
accountant annually. The Summit DD, or its authorized representative, shall have access to the
books and records of the Contractor at any time during the normal business hours of the
Contractor.

If the Contractor is a non?federal entity that expends five-hundred thousand dollars ($500,000)
or more per year in federal awards, a single or program?specific audit shall be conducted in
accordance with OBM Circular No. Any audit made in accordance with this paragraph
shall be in lieu of any financial audit requirement under this Contract.

CLAIMS AND PAYMENT

The total amount of this Contract shall not exceed SIX HUNDRED TWENTY ONE THOUSAND
DOLLARS AND no/100 and is limited to the Summit 2020 appropriation.

Contractor will invoice Summit DD for services under this Contract in accordance with
the fee schedule attached as Exhibit A hereto and incorporated by reference.

General Services 3
Rev 8.2013

V. TERM AND TERMINATION
A. The term of this Contract shall be from January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020.

B. This Contract may be terminated by Summit DD at any time for cause or for no cause by
providing the Contractor with notice in writing not less than ninety (90) days prior to terminating
this Contract.

C. In the event of a breach of any provision of this Contract, the non-breaching party may institute
Conciliation Procedures as set forth in ?Exhibit 2? attached hereto and made a part of this
Contract. If the dispute is not resolved within the timeframes identified in the Conciliation
Procedure, then the non-breaching party may terminate this Contract by written notice delivered
via certified mail.

VI. CONFIDENTIALITY
The Contractor shall maintain the confidentiality ofany records of individuals receiving service and
shall not disclose them except as permitted by law; provided, however, that the laws of Ohio and
the requirements of the Summit policies and procedures shall govern this provision. Any
information gathered through service delivery is the property of the Summit DD and may not be
released without a written authorization signed by the parent/guardian/ individual served.

VII. DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROCESS FOR PERSONS SERVED
The Contractor shall establish a procedure for affording individuals served due process as
appropriate. The Contractor shall utilize this procedure in the event of a disagreement between
the Contractor and the individual related to the Contractor?s performance of its duties and
obligations under this Contract.

MISCELLANEOUS

A. STANDARDS
All services provided under this Contract shall be in accordance with applicable local, state and
federal rules and laws including but not limited to the requirements of Chapter's 5123 and 5126
of the Ohio Revised Code, the rules and regulations of the Ohio Department of Developmental
Disabilities and any applicable requirements and regulations of the Summit DD.

B. ASSIGNMENT
Contractor may not assign this Contract or any part thereof without the written consent
ofthe Summit DD.

C. ENTIRE CONTRACT
It is acknowledged by the parties that this Contract supersedes any and all previous
written or oral Contracts between the parties concerning the subject matter of this Contract.
Exhibits attached hereto are adopted by reference as though fully rewritten herein.

D. NOTICES
Notices required to be given herein shall be in writing and shall be sent via certified mail
to the following respective addresses:

General Services 4
Rev 8.2013

TO: County of Summit
Developmental Disabilities Board
ATTENTION: Superintendent
89 East Howe Road
Tallmadge, Ohio 44278-1099

TO: Lori Chick, Executive Director
NEON
5121 Mahoning Avenue
Suite 102
Austintown, Ohio 44515

E. In the event that any statute, regulation, rule or state or federal law is amended, the
requirements of this Contract shall be automatically amended to reflect such modification
without any further action by the parties.

F. This Contract shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of Ohio.

SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS

General Services 5
Rev 8.2013

SIGNA TURES

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties by their duly authorized representatives have executed this Contract.

NORTH EAST OHIO NETWORK: COUNTY OF SUMMIT
DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES BOARD

 

 

 

 

 

 

Signature Date Signature Date
Print Name Print Name
Witness Date Witness Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM

OPINION NO.: 10-095

MICHAEL D. TODD

ASSISTANT PROSECUTING A 
SUMMIT COUNTY, OHIO

General Services 6
Rev 8.2013

EXHIBIT 1:

Status: Not-for?Profit For Profit

 

Names and addresses of any individuals or organizations having a direct or indirect ownership or control
interest of 5% or more in Contractor.

 

NAME ADDRESS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

General Services 7
Rev 8.2013

EXHIBIT 2

CONCILIATION PROCEDURE

In the event of disagreement between the parties as to their rights, duties and obligations under
the Contractor Agreement, the following procedure shall be implemented, at the written request of
either party:

STEP 

The Superintendent of the Summit DD or Chief Executive Officer of the contract agency shall indicate
and detail the specific problem or conflict situation in writing to the other Chief Executive
Officer/Superintendent with copies to the respective Board Chairpersons.

A meeting between the Executive Directors shall be scheduled to review the facts presented, obtain
additional factual material and agree on a proposed resolution within the context ofthe established
policies of the respective Boards within ten (10) working days after the original presentation of the issue.
If no such resolution is achieved, the parties shall move to Step II.

STEP  l

Within ten (10) days of outcome of Step I, written factual materials produced during Step I detailing the
problem and the reasons for failure to resolve same shall be presented to the Chairpersons of the
respective Boards.

The Chairpersons will schedule within ten (10) working days a meeting which shall include the members
of the Executive Committee of the respective Boards or selected Board members to review the facts and
to make recommendations for resolution of the problem. Since resolution at this level may require
policy modification of one or both Boards, a period of thirty (30) working days will be allowed for final
resolution of problems at this level.

Neither party shall initiate any court action unless and until the conciliation procedure set forth in this
policy has been completed.

General Services 8
Rev 8.2013

Exhibit A
Description of Services and Fees

SERVICES

Family Engagement Program
- Maintain an understanding of Summit program as detailed in procedures found in

Exhibit attached hereto

0 Per authorization from Summit DD, deposit approved funds into individual or family accounts
via direct deposit as detailed in procedures found in Exhibit attached hereto

0 Summit DD staff will track all receipts and provide a copy of each receipt to NEON

If a family fails to turn in any or all receipts, they will not be eligible for any additional funds.

FEES
Family Engagement Program

Summit DD will pay an administrative fee of $12.50 per transaction and up to $65 per month in bank
analysis fees in an amount not to exceed $10,000.

Annual Dues
Payment of annual dues to NEON in the amount of $5,000 for COG benefits such as the investment of
funds.

General Services 9
Rev 8.2013

Exhibit 

Emily Engagement Program (FE)

The Family Engagement Program has been established to support eligible individual?s birth to 22,

residing with family members, by providing funds to access goods and services that are necessary due to

the individual?s disability. Funds should enable individuals to live their best life by engaging their
community and staying connected to natural supports.

I. Eligibility

a.
b.
c.
d.

Individuals eligible for Summit DD services

Are between the ages of 0?22

Are living at home with a parent(s) or guardian
Do not have waiver funding

Services and supports eligible for funding typically include but are not limited to:

a.

9999'

Summer camp

Community Classes or memberships

Safety Equipment

Therapies not otherwise covered by insurance
Health related supplies

Ill. Family Engagement Program Funds

a.

cameo?

Are available for a 12 month period beginning January 15t

Will not exceed the amount per person set each year based on the Board?s budget
Do not have to be used all at one time or in their entirety

Will be approved after a quote has been obtained

Will on be released after the receipt of an approved receipt

Will be directly deposited into a families checking or savings account, no checks will
be issued (unless using a certified provider for respite)

IV. Accessing Funds

3.

General Services
Rev 8.2013

A family will work with Summit DD staff: Service and Support Administrator (SSA),
Developmental Specialist (DS) or Referral and Support Specialist (RSS) who can help
them determine if the Family Engagement Program is appropriate for their needs
Summit DD staff will use a Person Centered Planning approach to authorize the
purchase of a good or service
Summit DD staff will complete the Family Engagement Program Form and if
available, document the outcome related to the need for the good or services on
the IFSP or ISP
Family will provide Summit DD staff a quote for the good or service
Summit DD staff will provide the family with the Direct Deposit Enrollment Form
which the family will complete and return
i. Families choosing to have the money deposited into their own account will
have to complete a W9 form as this may count as taxable income (if not
previously completed)
ii. Families choosing to have the money deposited into money into their child?s
account or STABLE account will not need a W9

10

f. Summit DD staff email the completed Family Engagement Form, enrollment
paperwork (if needed) and all supporting documentation (quote, brochure,
recommendation, etc.) to the FEP mailbox at FEP@summitdd.org

g. Manager will respond to requests in the FEP mailbox on a weekly basis. If
approved, the request will be forwarded to AA for processing.

h. AA will add request into FSS module in Gatekeeper and email approval certificate
back to staff person making the request.

i. Staff person can notify family request has been approved.

j. Family may purchase the good or service

V. After the purchase of a good or service

a. The family must provide Summit DD, when possible, the original invoice or receipt

for each good or service obtained with funds from the program.
i. Receipts can be returned to Summit DD by:

1. Giving them to a staff member,

2. Scanning and emailing them to FEP@summitdd.org with
as the subject followed up by mailing the original
receipt to SCDD, or

3. Mailing them to Summit Attention Megan Whitfield

b. Summit DD staff will turn all receipts into AA who will enter into FFS module in
GateKeeper and track the amount used by each individual

c. Summit DD staff may access GateKeeper to check on any funds that remain

d. Each Friday, AA will send all requests with required paperwork and receipts to the
Fiscal Department for processing.

e. Upon Fiscal approval, Monday or Tuesday of the following week, a listing will be
compiled and sent to NEON who will deposit the approved funding money into a
family?s bank account.

f. NEON will provide the SSA and Fiscal Departments with a reconciliation of
the program.

g. Staff will contact individual/ family to review satisfaction with good or service and
update or document outcome in TCM

VI. Detailed Description of Goods and Services

a. Summer Camp- summer programs that allow participation in the community
preferably with other children who do not have disabilities. Examples include:
YMCA camps, recreational camp, themed camp or any other summer program the

individual wishes to attend.

i. Funds covertuition

ii. The family is responsible for registering the child for camp
if a child is eligible for Extended School Year (ESY) through their school
district, funds must not be used fund camp until that is exhausted

b. Family Chosen Providers: Someone the family knows and believes is able to care for
their family member. This person cannot be a relative, live in the family home, and
must be over the age of 18. When using a family chosen provider the provider must
participate in 4 hours of training provided by Summit DD.

1. Once services have been delivered the family must submit a

General Services 11
Rev 8.2013

General Services
Rev 8.2013

completed Respite Log with the provider?s signature.
2. Money will be deposited into the families account and they can pay
the provider.

Community Classes and Memberships? inclusive and adaptive classes in the
community. Examples include: horseback riding, music class, art and dance
programs, and sports programs.
i. Quote from provider needed
ii. Memberships will cover one adult and one child
Uniforms and equipment will not be paid for

Health Related Supplies? supplies that an individual needs due to their
developmental disability that are not covered by another funding source. Items
may include: incontinence supplies, dietary shakes, specialized formula, and
thickeners.

i. Quote needed

Safety Equipment? equipment that is used to keep someone safe. Items may
include safety gates, outlet covers and GPS tracking devices.

Therapies not otherwise covered by insurance- Speech, OT, and PT. Must have an
insurance denial letter.

12

Exhibit 

Summit County FEP Program
Processing Instructions
Department: Finance
1. FEP requests from Summit to NEON will be sent to:

accounting@neoncog.org
Copy to:
mglidewell@neoncog.org
ckasabian@neoncog.org
ikust@neoncog.org

2. Upon receipt of the batched requests, NEON will verify the amounts, unique voucher numbers
(check for duplications), the individuals name and the payee.

0 Summit County will use one unique FEP File Number for each FEP
Authorization form sent to NEON for payment

if there is a first time request in the batch, Summit will include a W-9 (if
applicable) and a Direct Deposit form with the batch.

0 Summit will clearly identify in the batch of requests whether it is the child
or the parent/guardian who will be the payee of funds.

0 Summit will clearly identify bank account changes to existing payees on the
FEP Requests.

0 Summit will clearly identify Stable Ohio Payments for payees on the FEP
Request form and furnish the Stable Ohio Link for processing.

3. To ensure accuracy, NEON will submit the batch to Summit (jpetrarca@summitdd.org and
to verify the amounts and totals are correct. If there any requests
within the batch that must be delayed pending receipt of information insufficient
demographic or payee information) those requests will be removed from the batch and sent to
Summit (ipetrarca@summitdd.org and separately to resolve any
barriers to payment. NOTE: This will not impact NEON moving forward with paying the other
requests in the batch once verified by Summit.

4. Once Summit has verified the number of requests and batch totals, all of the verified requests
will be processed for payment within 1-2 business days.

5. Summit will resubmit requests that have been removed from a batch to NEON for processing.
Upon verification by Summit (Step 3), NEON will process these payments within 1-2 business
days of receipt. NOTE: They will NOT be held to include in the next batch.

6. NEON will print out all FEP requests in the batch. Requests will be filed and maintained by NEON.

General Services 13
Rev 8.2013

7. NEON will enter all new Payees based on the W9 and/or Direct Deposit form (when a W9 is not
required).
0 A W9 is not reguired when the Child is on the account receiving payment.
0 A W9 is required if the parent/guardian is receiving payment
0 A W9 is required if the child is receiving payment and the child is not on
the parent/guardians account that NEON has on file.

8. NEON will process the FEP requests and submit payment to recipients. A hard copy as well as
electronic copies of all FEP requests that are processed will be retained.

9. NEON will print the EFT Receipts from the batch. EFT Receipts and the FEP requests received
from Summit will be scanned into Intellinetics for electronic archiving.

10. NEON will affix the EFT Receipts, Bank Transactions Detail Report, and the Payment register
to the FEP requests received from Summit and file them in hard copy in the designated filing
cabinet.

11. NEON will organize the accounting@neoncog.org email inbox with folders identifying the date a
batch is processed. All corresponding emails pertaining to the batch will be moved to the folder.
The folder will be retained for one calendar year following the end of the program year 
January through December 2017 folders will be deleted on January 1, 2019)

12. NEON will update the Summit FEP invoice and Payments Tracking spreadsheet with the batch
information to include the following:
a. Payee Name
FEP Invoice Number

Date the invoice was received

Date the invoice was paid

Count of days to payment

Amount of invoice

A comment section to explain excessive timelines for payment



13. Once the FEP batch has been completed and processed, NEON will send a Check Register of all
FEP requests processed to Summit County (jQEtrarca@summitdd.org and


14. NEON will reconcile all FEP requests Reconciliation will include FEP voucher numbers
and total amounts.

15. NEON will email a copy of the Summit FEP invoice and Payments Tracking spreadsheet to Summit
County lipetrarca@summitdd.org and each month to track the
processing time of all FEP payments.

General Services 14
Rev 8.2013

16. Program contact information:

SEND: FEP Batch Requests, Verifications and Documents Required for Processing Payments to:
accounting@neoncog.org

mglidewell@neoncog.org

Mst@neoncog.org

ckasabian@neoncog.org

SEND: FEP Batch Verification Requests Requests for Documents Required for Processing
Payments, Check Registers and Summit FEP Invoice and Payments Tracking spreadsheet
to:



ipetrarca@summitdd.org

SEND: Any Issues or Concerns or Complaints regarding FEP Invoices and/or Payments
Ichick@neoncog.org



accounting@neoncog.org

General Services 15
Rev 8.2013

 

Attachment #6

Summit County DeveIOpmental Disabilities Board

 

 

 

 

 

TOPIC SUMMARY REPORT

TOPIC RECOMMENDA 770?
Contract with Summit Summit DD contributes funds to a Summit DD to continue participation in
County Family and shared pool which assists children and shared pool agreement for amount of
Children First Council families involved in multi-systems. $110,700? for the time period of January
Shared P001 for Youth 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020.
(Service Review
Collaborative)

 

 

 

SUPPORTING DA TA FOR RECOMMENDA HON

Service Area: SSA
Amount of Increase] Decrease: Total Cost: $110,700*
*denotes 2019 contribution, 2020 contribution will either remain the same or increase Will know final amount

before December Board Meeting

 

As required by ORC 121.37 (C) (1-9), Family and Children First Councils must deveIOp a county?specific Service
Coordination Mechanism (SCM), which serves as the guiding document for coordination of services in the county. The
purpose of the Service Coordination Mechanism is to streamline and coordinate existing government services for families
seeking services for their children (age birth through 21) and to ensure that eligible families have access to service
coordination. Developed from the SCM, a team of professionals from child serving agencies in Summit County meets
weekly to:
0 Review and monitor requests for community-based services for children with multi-system needs
- Offer case consultation from a mum-system perspective to staff from any agency dealing with a complex
youth/family
Refer families for wrap around/service coordination
Review individual cases that are in need of more restrictive placement settings such as residential treatment and
monitoring youth in residential treatment.
0 issuing recommendations and/or offering alternatives to better serve youth and families
Data from 1I1l19 to 10l29f19:
l) WrapAround/Service Coordination
71 referrals accepted and opened 10 were DD involved youth

2) Case Consultation
7 referrals accepted and reviewed by 3 were DD involved youth

3) Funding Requests for Community Based Services
56 funding requests reviewed by 36 were DD involved youth
Requests included: camp, safety items, sensory items, membership, gas cards, structured activities and
mentoring
4) Funding Requests for Out of Home Placement (Le. crisis respite home, residential treatment, group home, etc.)
25 requests 9 were DD involved youth

 

Funds from this contract will be pooled with funds from other county agencies to support the various needs of the
children/families involved including residential placement. Contributions to this collaborative in 2019 included Summit DD
Summit County Children?s Services Juvenile Court and the ADM Board 

Summit DD has 2 staff members who serve as part of this committee and have access to bring any Board eligible
child/family to the committee for support and funding recommendations.

 

 

 

Recommended for approval by the Services 8: Supports and Finance 8: Facilities 

Submitted By: _Holly Brugh For: Superintendent/Assistant Superintendent
Finance Facilities Committee

Date: November 2019 Services 8: Supports Committee

Committee

 

 

 

 

Attachment #7

Summit County DeveIOpmental Disabilities Board

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TOPIC SUMMARY REPORT
TOPIC CONCERN RECOMMENDA TI 0? i
Allocation of resources Annual maintenance contract and The Board approve the request to
for maintenance in additional repair costs for all HVAC enter into contracts and purchases with
2020 systems Gardiner in 2020 for an amount not to
exceed $79,992

 

 

 

 

 

SUPPORTING DA TA FOR RECOMMENDA TION

 

 

 

 

Total Cost: Not to exceed $79,992 in 2020

Summary:
Summit DD uses Gardiner to provide routine and emergency maintenance on all the aging HVAC

units at all of our facilities.

 

The annual cost for the maintenance contract is $49,992 for 2020.

 

Summit DD also has an additional $30,000 budgeted in 2020 for repairs that are outside of the
maintenance contract, which includes ?non?maintainable parts" such as heat exchangers, ductwork,
structural supports, water/ steam drain piping, refrigerant piping and coils, wiring, and replacement
of obsolete equipment.

This is a high estimate of the out of maintenance amount we may need, and actual costs are likely to
be iess. However, as the HVAC units age, there is increased risk of needing signi?cant repairs that
are outside of the maintenance contract.

 

 

 

The combined costs for the maintenance contract and out of support costs is expected to be a
maximum of $79,992 for all of 2020, which is in line with the $80,000 allocated in the 2020 budget.

It is recommended that the Board approve the request to enter into agreements with Gardiner in
2020 for an amount not to exceed $79,992.

 

 

 

Recommended for approval by the
November Finance Facilities Committee.

 

Submitted By: Russ DuPlain For: Superintendent/Assistant Superintendent
Finance Facilities Committee
Date: November 2019 Services Supports Committee

 

Committee



System Service Solutions

 

HVAC Select Maintenance Agreement

LEVEL THREE SELECT MASTER MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT

Ohio State Term Schedule MMA Proposal
MMA Contract Number MMA7461. Index Number MMA632

CONTRACT PRESENTED TO:
Mr. Nate Doney
County of Summit
Developmental Disabilities Board
89 E. Howe Road
Tallmadge, Ohio 44278

PROJECTS OR LOCATIONS:
Barberton Center
Cuyahoga Falls Center
Tallmadge Center
Weaver Learning Center
Bath Center

Presented by:
Jeff Covert
Account Manager

Agreement No:

C004868 Renewal I January 1, 2020

 

GA 

VAC Systems - Energy Serw'ces - Automation Controls - Buri?dmg Services - Intelligent Serwtes - VAC Pan?s Supp??es


 AGREEMENT NUMBER: C004868 Renewal

 

SERVICE AGREEMENT PRICING AND ACCEPTANCE

PROJECTS 8: LOCATIONS: County of Summit, Developmental Disabilities Board
Barberton Center
Cuyahoga Falls Center
Tallmadge Center
Weaver Learning Center
Bath Center
GARDINER, agrees to furnish services in accordance with the General and Supplemental Terms and
Conditions and attached Schedules. This AGREEMENT shall become valid only upon acceptance by
CUSTOMER and approved by GARDINER.

 

 

This agreement price is $49,992.00 per year, payable in amounts of $4,166.00. Any repairs
provided outside the scope of the agreement will include a $45.00 daily truck charge at the following MMA

Hourly Rates: HVAC Chiller Service $110.00
HVAC Control Service $115.00
HVAC RTU Service >50 Tons $98.00
HVAC Mechanical Service $92.00

The above rates apply to normal working hours. Overtime and Saturday labor rates are time and a half.
Sundays and holidays are double time.

Upon execution of this Agreement, the customer shall be responsible for determining proper Ohio sales
tax. If you are tax exempt, please include your tax exemption certificate. This price is to be adjusted in
future years as herein provided.

This agreement is effective from January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020, and shall remain in effect
from year to year unless terminated by either party at the end of the anniversary date by giving at least
thirty (30) days written notice.

Note: This price includes provisions for safety under standard industry GARDINER safety guidelines. Any special additional
safety training, equipment, or processes required by your organization could affect the project scope and/or hours and may
result in a price adjustment. If you have any specific safety practices or requirements, please alert your sales representative

immediately so we ensure that our proposal fully meets your requirements.

 

 

 

 

 

SUBMITTED BY: Jeff Covert Date: October 30, 2019
Account Manager
CUSTOMER ACCEPTANCE: GARDINER APPROVAL:
Signature: Signature: .
Jeff Cove rt
Title: Account Manager
Acceptance Date:
Purchase Order No: GARDINER COPY

 

 

 31200 Bainbridge Road a Solon, Ohio 44139 0 440-349-5583 a 440-349-3585 Fax 

 AGREEMENT NUMBER: C004868 Renewal

 

GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

 

I. PRICE ADJUSTMENT
This agreement will automatically renew each year. A price adjustment may be required based on future prevailing
conditions (labor and material index). The adjustment to the agreement price will be clearly indicated on the first
invoice of the next term of the agreement.

II. PAYMENT
Terms of this agreement are net payment upon receipt of invoice. GARDINER reserves the right to discontinue its
service anytime payments have not been made as agreed. Taxes, if applicable, will be included in billing. An
itemized billing statement reflecting the application of Ohio sales tax shall be made available upon request. CFC Tax
has been passed for most refrigerants per the 1990 Budget Reconciliation Bill (HR. 3299).

WARRANTY: GARDINER guarantees service work and all materials of manufacture against defects in
workmanship for 90 days from date of completion of the work and will repair or replace such products or
components as GARDINER finds defective. This warranty does not include cost of handling, shipping, or
transportation involved in supplying replacements for defective components. This warranty does not include the
replacement of refrigerant lost from the system. On machinery and materials furnished by GARDINER, but
manufactured by others, the only warranty provided is that of the manufacturer. THE WARRANTY AND LIABILITY
SET FORTH IN THE PRECEDING PARAGRAPHS ARE IN LIEU OF ALL OTHER WARRANTIES AND LIABILITIES, WHETHER
IN CONTRACT OR IN NEGLIGENCE, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, IN LAW OR IN FACT, INCLUDING IMPLIED WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR USE OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. IN NO
EVENT SHALL GSC BE LIABLE FOR ANY INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES.

IV. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY: All claims, causes of action or legal proceedings against GARDINER arising from
performance under this contract must be commenced by CUSTOMER within the express warranty
period specified under Paragraph Ill hereof. Failure to commence any such claim, cause of action or legal proceeding
within such claim, cause of action or legal proceeding within such period shall constitute a voluntary and knowing
waiver thereof by CUSTOMER. IN NO EVENT SHALL LIABILITY FOR DIRECT OR COMPENSATORY
DAMAGES EXCEED THE PAYMENTS RECEIVED BY GARDINER FROM CUSTOMER UNDER THIS CONTRACT, NOR
SHALL GARDINER BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL, OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES. THESE
LIMITATIONS ON DAMAGES SHALL APPLY UNDER ALL THEORIES OF LIABILITY OR CAUSES OF ACTION INCLUDING
BUT NOT LIMITED TO CONTRACT, WARRANTY, NEGLIGENCE, STRICT LIABILITY, OR ANY OTHER LEGAL THEORY.
GARDINER DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES OF ANY KIND ARISING FROM MOLD, FUNGUS, BACTERIA,
MICROBIAL GROWTH, OR ANY OTHER CONTAMINATES.

V. INDEMNITY: GARDINER and customer shall mutually, and to the extent allowable under Ohio law, in proportion
to their respective degree of fault, indemnify, defend and hold each other harmless from any and all claims,
actions, costs, expenses, damages and liabilities, including reasonable attorneys? fees, resulting from death or
bodily injury or damage to real or tangible personal property, to the extent caused by the negligence or
misconduct of the indemnifying party, and [or its respective employees or agents. With respect to any claims
based on facts or conditions that occurred prior to expiration or termination of this agreement, the duty to
indemnify will continue in full force and effect notwithstanding expiration or early termination.

 

[31200 Bainbridge Road 0 Solon, Ohio 44139 0 440-349-5588 0 440-349-3585 Fax 

 AGREEMENT NUMBER: COO4868 Renewal January 1, 2020

GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

VI.

VII.



XI.

NO-SOLICITATION: CUSTOMER hereby covenants and agrees that, without the prior written consent of
the Company, he/it will not, directly or indirectly (including, without limitation, through any affiliate or related
party), for a period of two (2) years after the date hereof solicit the employment of, offer employment to or hire, any
employee of the Company, or any individual whose employment with the Company ended less than one hundred
eighty (180) days prior to such solicitation or offer. CUSTOMER acknowledges that in the event of a violation of the
covenants contained in this Section, the Company?s damages will be difficult to ascertain and the Company's
remedies at law will be inadequate. Accordingly, the CUSTOMER agrees that, in addition to such remedies as the
Company may have at law, the Company shall be entitled to specific performance of such covenants and to an
injunction to prevent any continuing violation thereof.

DISPUTES AND CHOICE OF LAWS: This contract shall be deemed to have been entered into and shall be governed
by the laws of the State of Ohio. All claims, disputes, and controversies arising out of or relating to this contract,
shall be submitted to mediation, pursuant to the Commercial Dispute Resolution Procedures of the
American Arbitration Association. The mediation shall take place in Cleveland, Ohio within thirty (30) days of the
date the dispute arises. If mediation is unsuccessful, the dispute shall proceed to binding arbitration, pursuant to
the CDRP, in Cleveland, Ohio, no later than sixty (60) days after the mediation is concluded. Anyjudgment upon the
arbitration award may be confirmed in any court having jurisdiction thereof. The parties agree that any party to the
arbitration shall be entitled to discovery from the other party as provided by the Ohio Rules of Civil Procedure. Any
such discovery shall be completed within four (4) months from the date the Demand for Arbitration is filed with the
American Arbitration Association. Unless otherwise agreed, the arbitration shall be completed no later than six (6)
months after the arbitration commenced.

CUSTOMER OBLIGATIONS: The CUSTOMER shall:

0 Operate the equipment in accordance with manufacturer? 5 recommended instructions.

notify GARDINER of any unusual operating conditions.

0 Provide access to the equipment including removal, replacement, or refinishing of the building structure if
necessary.

0 Pay for any services and materials not specifically included in this agreement. Additional charges shall be
made upon authorization at prevailing rates.

0 Disposal of old oil and refrigerant shall be the responsibility if it becomes classified as
hazardous.

GARDINER OBLIGATIONS: It shall be the responsibility of GARDINER to inform the CUSTOMER of any adverse
conditions beyond the scope of the preventive maintenance agreement and make recommendations to correct
them.

SUPPLEMENTAL CONDITIONS: 1) County of Summit Developmental Disabilities Board shall be considered
a priority customer; GARDINER will respond to a service call within four (4) hours. 2) Any services or material
supplied outside the context of this contract will be billed at best prevailing rate.

ENTIRE AGREEMENT: These terms and conditions constitute the entire agreement between and
CUSTOMER. If there is a conflict with other terms and conditions, these terms and conditions shall control. No
course of dealing or performance, or prior, concurrent or subsequent understanding, agreements, or
representations become part of this contract unless expressly agreed to in writing by an authorized representative of
GARDINER.

 

 31200 Bainbridge Road Solon, Ohio 44139 0 440?349-5588 440-349-3585 Fax 

 AGREEMENT NUMBER: C004868 Renewal

SUPPLEMENTAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS
(For ?All Inclusive" or ?Select Maintenance? contract on existing equipment)

1) The equipment covered under this contract is the total responsibility of the contractor. This includes labor
(scheduled and emergency) and all parts.

2) Excluded from the contract are all non-maintainable parts:

Items not normally mechanically maintainable such as heat exchangers, ductwork, casings, cabinets, fixtures,
structural supports, grillage, tower fill, water piping, steam piping, drain piping, refrigerant piping, refrigerant
coils, boiler sections, burners, boiler refractory, disconnect switches, circuit breakers, wiring, steam/air side
corrosion or erosion, water/brine side erosion and corrosion of tubes, acid cleaning or damage beyond Gardiner
Service Company DBA Gardiner?s control. Replacement of non-repairable obsolete equipment. If equipment is no
longer repairable because parts are not available, we will make an adjustment as to what it would cost to repair
the new style piece of equipment that is the replacement, and deduct repair cost from the cost to install that new
part.

3) Any service calls which do not reveal a problem for which Gardiner is liable or which County of Summit
Developmental Disabilities Board personnel should handle setting of thermostats), will be billed at prevailing
rates.

4) Gardiner shall not be liable for repairs or replacements due to negligence misuse of equipment.

5) County of Summit Developmental Disabilities Board shall be considered priority customer, Gardiner will
respond to a service call as soon as possible.

6) Any services or materials supplied outside the context of this contract will be billed at best prevailing rate.

7) It shall be the responsibility of Gardiner to inspect and report to the Customer any malfunctions and defects
within thirty (30) days after effective date of the Agreement. If equipment cannot be operated within this 30 day
period due to seasonal conditions or other factors beyond our control, the period for initial inspection will be
extended to 30 days after the equipment can be operated and checked, if applicable.

8) it shall also be the responsibility of Gardiner to make recommendations and to assist the Customer in restoring
the equipment to proper operating condition. However, all of the actual restoration costs shall be paid by the
Customer, if applicable.

9) After equipment restoration to original operating conditions has been approved by Gardiner, coverage will
become effective in accordance with the terms of this agreement, if applicable.

10) Hazardous Material Any removal of hazardous material is the responsibility of the customer. If a material
becomes listed as hazardous by the EPA, it will be the responsibility of the customer to remove before service can
be performed.

 

 31200 Bainbridge Road a Solon, Ohio 44139 0 440-349-5588 0 440-349-3585 Fax 

El?n/?t? AGREEMENT NUMBER: C004868 Renewal

SUPPLEMENTAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS
(For ?All Inclusive" or ?Select Maintenance? contract on existing equipment)
- Continued -

11) For emergency service performed at the customer's request during other than normal working hours, the
customer agrees to pay the difference between the prevailing standard billing rate and the prevailing overtime
billing rate.

12) Gardiner speci?cally excludes the ?nancial responsibility for the following:

a. Replacement of refrigerant caused by leaks, lost charge, or contamination.
b. Cost associated with any United States government state, county, or city regulations affecting the use
of Refrigerants. Gardiner will not take responsibility for cost related to any requirements by any
government involving the following:
- Retrofitting of equipment for alternate refrigerants
- Retrofitting of equipment to improve refrigerant conservation or to prevent leaks or indicate
that leaks exist, and
- Any recommendations or accessory provided by the equipment manufacturer or vendor sources
to upgrade the equipment to perform in compliance with government regulations or to comply
with conservation requirements.

 

 31200 Bainbridge Road 0 Solon, Ohio 44139 0 440-349-5588 3 440-349?3585 Fax 

 AGREEMENT NUMBER: COO4868 Renewal

EQUIPMENT LIST

PROJECT LOCATION: County of Summit, Developmental Disabilities Board
Barberton Center
501 W. Hopocan Ave.
Barberton, OH 44203

This agreement applies only to the equipment listed below:

 

         

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

QTY ita?kejyo?ej SERIAL :1 SCHEDULE
8 Rooftop Units JCI N069062535 
JCI NOGQO71156 RTU-Z 
JCI N069064770 JOGZHN 1032 RTU-3 
JCI N069070770 RTU-4
JCI NOGQO70769 J04ZJD10PZD 
JCI N069064810 JO7ZHN15BZ 
JCI NOGQO70772 JO4ZJD10P2D RTU-7
JCI N069064809 JO7ZHN15B7 RTU-8
1 Hot Water Boiler AO Smith Unknown Unknown 
1 Gas Hot Water Heater Unknown Unknown Unknown 
13 Exhaust Fans Unknown Unknown Unknown FAN-200

 

 

 31200 Bain bridge Road a Solon, Ohio 44139 0 440-349-5588 0 440-349-3585 Fax

 AGREEMENT NUMBER: C004868 Renewal

 

EQUIPMENT LIST

PROJECT 8: LOCATION: County of Summit, Developmental Disabilities Board
Cuyahoga Falls Center
2355 Street

Cuyahoga Falls, OH 44221

 

This agreement applies only to the equipment listed below:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SERIAL it SCHEDULE
9 Rooftop Units York N069062535 
York JO6ZHN10P2D224 N069064807 RTU-Z FLR-100
York J06ZN10P2 D224OO NOG 9064806 CDS-ZOO
York J122HN20Q2 D224 N069062534 RTU-4
York JOEZN10P2D22400 N069064805 RTU-5
York J062N10P2D22400 N069064803 RTU-6
York J062N10P2022400 N069064804 RTU-7
York N069062536 RTU-8
York JO421D10P2D2210 NOGQO70771 RTU-9
1 Domestic HW Boiler AO Smith Unknown Unknown BLR-100
1 Gas HW Heater Rheem Unknown Unknown 
15 Exhaust Fans Unknown Unknown Unknown FAN-200

 

 

 31200 Bainbridge Road a Solon, Ohio 44139 0 440-349-5588 0 440-349-3585 Fax 

El?n/?l? AGREEMENT NUMBER: C004868 Renewal

 

EQUIPMENT LIST

PROJECT 8: LOCATION: County of Summit, Developmental Disabilities Board
Tallmadge Center
630 North Avenue

Tallmadge, OH 44278

 

This agreement applies only to the equipment listed below:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

QTY EQUIPMENT TAG SCHEDULE
8 Rooftop Units Season4 6MZG20-0142-DN4 4863-1196568 
Seasons4 4863-1196566 AC-19 
Seasons4 6M 4863?1196562 AC-23 
Seasons4 4862-1196561 AC-22
Seasons4 6MZGZO-0082-DN3 4863-1196567 
Seasons4 4863-1196571 AC-ZO
Seasons4/ BSJK24-0232-DN5 4863-1196569 
Seasons4 651K24-0202-DN5 4863-1196570 AC-18
1 Circulating HW Unknown Unknown Unknown 
Pump
1 Gas Unit Heater Unknown Unknown Unknown 
1 Gas Water Heater Brad White D100L1993N BA5668531 
1 Reach-In Freezer Hobart Unknown 
CBS-200
18 Exhaust Fans Unknown Unknown Unknown 
2 Coolers Bally/ 33DFNR 075130 Walk-In 
Hobart Unknown Reach-In CBS-200

 

 

 31200 Bainbridge Road Solon, Ohio 44139 0 440-349-5588 6 440-349-3585 Fax 

lama/Illa

EQUIPMENT LIST

PROJECT LOCATION:

AGREEMENT NUMBER: COO4868 Renewal January 1, 2020

County of Summit, Developmental Disabilities Board

Adm/Weaver Learning Center

89 E. Howe Road
Tallmadge, OH 44278

 

This agreement applies only to the equipment listed below:

 

QTY EQUIPMENT
14 Rooftop Units

 

MODEL

 

 

SERIAL it

Seasons4 4863-1196556

Seasons4 
Seasons4 6MJK24-0272-DN3
Seasons4 6M HZZ4-0252-DN5
Seasons4/ 
Seasons4/ 
Seasons4/ 

4863-1196559
4863-1196557
4863-1195558
4863-1196560
4863?1196550
4863?1196564

Seasons4 6MZGZO-0152-DN4 4863?1196565

Seasons4/ 6MZGZO-0132-DN4
Seasons4/ 6MJ 
Seasons4/ 
Seasons4/ 
Seasons4/ 
Seasons4 

4863?1196563
4863-1196555
4863?1196552
4863-1196554
4863-1196553
4863-1196548

 
 

SCHEDULE
B-Wing 10 
B-Wing 15 FLR-100
B-Wing 12 CBS-200
B-Wing 13

B-Wing 16

Wing 4

Wing 8

Wing 9

Wing 7

Wing 2

Wing 6

Wing 5

Wing 1

wing 3

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 Glycol Pumps Unknown Unknown Unknown MIS Comp. PM P-100
for Dry Cooler Room
3 Make Up Air Unknown Unknown Unknown Kitchen 
Units Unknown Unknown Unknown Pool 
Unknown Unknown Unknown Locker Rm.
1 Air Handler Trane M184HUH6H D-Wing AH 
4 HW Pumps Unknown Unknown Unknown 
2 Hot Water Lochinvar CF-940 5N153 Pool BLR-1OO
Boilers Lochinvar CF-940 Unknown Locker Rm.
2 Heaters Reznor/ Unknown Unknown C?Wing 
the.

 

 

 31200 Bainbridge Road a Solon, Ohio 44139 0 440-349-5588 0 440-349-3585 Fax

10 of 35

64mm:

 

QTY 7 EQUIPMEN MAKELMODEL

AGREEMENT NUMBER: C004868 Renewal January 1, 2020

   

SERIAL 

  

     

TAG SCHEDULE

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2 Gas HW Heater Unknown Unknown Unknown MSC-170
3 Furnaces Comfortmaker 2995A01733 Low Office MSC-150
Carrier/ Unknown Unknown C?Wing FLR-1OO
Carrier Unknown Unknown D?Wing
4 Freezers/Coolers Bally BF 100 90272 Freezer MSC-100
Walk?In Kolpack Unknown Unknown Freezer CBS-200
Bally/ Unknown Unknown Cooler
Hobart (12 Unknown Cooler
15 Exhaust Fans Unknown Unknown Unknown FAN-200
6 Electric Heaters Unknown Unknown 
1 Dry Cooler Liebert 0903C18618 
1 Controls Honeywell Unknown 
1 Computer Room Liebert VSOZSKDAOE1977A C09A8H0001 Server Rm. 
Unit CDS-ZOO
FLR-100
4 Air-Cooled York/ H1CE150A46C NLGM127185 
Condensing Units Trane M183YECAH 
York/ H4CE090A46C NHGM1717O 
York/ HZDBOBOSOGA EHGM319142

 

 

 31200 Bainbridge Road I Solon, Ohio 44139 4ao-349-5588 0 440-349-3585 Fax

11 of 35

Email/tn

EQUIPMENT LIST

PROJECT LOCATION:

AGREEMENT NUMBER: C004858 Renewal January 1, 2020 I

County of Summit, Developmental Disabilities Board

Bath Center

340 N. Cleveland Massillon Road

Akron, OH 44313

 

This agreement applies only to the equipment listed below:

 

QTY EQUIPMEN

  
 

IMIELMODEL

 

SERIAL 

  
  
 

SCHEDULE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 Air-Cooled Carrier 0497F49787 
Condensing Units CDS-200
1 Air Handling Unit 03793 521 AHU-100

1 Cooler McCall 4020 Unknown MISC-100
CBS-200
14 Pneumatic T-Stats/ Unknown Unknown Unknown 
Controls
2 Electric Hot Water Lochinvar/ Unknown Unknown UNH-200
Heaters American Unknown Unknown
8 Electric Heaters (3) Chromalox/ Unknown Unknown Entrance MSC-200
(5) TPI Unknown Unknown Duct Htrs.
1 Freezer McCall 4020F Unknown Reach-In 
CDS-ZOO
1 Furnace Carrier 58MXA120-20 5096A00941 Office MSC-150
1 Hot Water Boiler Bryant 79802 
2 Gas Hot Water Heater AO Smith FSG40232 3129004232 Laundry Rm. MSC-17O
AO Smith Unknown Unknown
3 Hot Water Pumps Unknown Unknown Unknown PM 
5 VAV Boxes Unknown Unknown Unknown VAV-100

 

 

131200 Bainbridge Road I Solon, Ohio 44139 0 440-349-5538 I 440-349-3585 Fax

 

12 of 35

 AGREEMENT NUMBER: C004868 Renewal

 

SCOPE OF COVERAGE

Level Three Select Master Maintenance Agreement

PROJECTS LOCATIONS: County of Summit, Developmental Disabilities Board
Barberton Center
Cuyahoga Falls Center
Tallmadge Center
Weaver Learning Center
Bath Center

MAINTENANCE AND

LEVEL TH REE

 

SERVICES INCLUDED

0 Comprehensive Annual Maintenance l2!
0 Running Inspections El
0 Written Reports El
0 Emergency Service El
0 Coil Cleaning (air cooled) El
0 Filter Inspection Change El
0 Major Repair Labor See Attached Supplemental

Terms 8: Conditions

 

 31200 Bainbridge Road I Solon, Ohio 44139 0 440-349-5588 0 440-349-3585 Fax

   

13 of 35

 

AGREEMENT NUMBER: C004868 Renewal

SCH EDU LES
Level Three Select Master Maintenance Agreement ROOFTOP UNIT RTU-100

COMPREHENSIVE ANNUAL INSPECT ION-COOLING

General Assembly

El Report in with the customers? representative.
Visually inspect for leaks and report leak check results.
Repair minor leaks as required valve packing, flare nuts).
Check the sheaves and pulleys for wear and alignment.
Check the belts for tension, wear, cracks, and/or glazing.
Verify clean condenser and evaporator
Verify clean evaporator fan.
Verify clean air filters.
Verify proper damper operation.
Check mechanical linkages for wear, tightness, and clearances.
Check the operation and setup of the RTM module, if applicable.
Check the VFD, if applicable.
Verify the starter operation.
Verify smooth operation of the compressors and fans.
Cleanup unit and work area.



Controls and Safeties
El Verify the operation of the discharge air temperature control device.
El Verify the operation of the mixed air temperature control device.
El Test the operation of the low evaporator pressure safety device. Calibrate, if applicable, and record
setting.
El Test the operation of the low temperature safety device. Calibrate, if applicable and record setting.
El Test the operation of the low oil pressure safety device, if applicable. Calibrate, record and verify setting.
I: Verify the operation of the static pressure control.

Lubrication
Lu bricate damper bearings, if applicable.
Lu bricate motor bearing, if applicable.
Lubricate fan bearings.
Check oil level in the compressor(s), if applicable.
Check oil for acid content and discoloration. Make recommendations to the customer based on the
results of the test.

DUDE

 

 31200 Bainbridge Road 0 Solon, Ohio 44139 0 440?349-5588 0 440-349-3585 Fax 

 AGREEMENT NUMBER: COO4868 Renewal

SCHEDULES
Level Three Select Master Maintenance Agreement ROOFTOP UNIT RTU-100 - Cont?d

Motor and Starter
Disable starter per lockout/tag out procedures
Clean the starter and cabinet.
Inspect wiring and connections for tightness and signs of overheating and discoloration.
Check the contactors for free and smooth operation.
Meg the compressor motor(s) and record readings.
Verify the tightness of the compressor motor terminal connections.
Verify the operation of the compressor oil heater(s).
Provide a written report of completed work and indicate any uncorrected deficiencies detected.



MID-SEASON COOLING INSPECTION

Report in with the customers? representative.

Check the general condition of the unit.

Log the operating condition after system has stabilized.

Verify the operation of the control circuits.

Analyze the recorded data.

Review operating procedures with operating personnel.

Provide a written report of completed work, operating log, and indicate any uncorrected deficiencies

detected.

DDUDUUEI

MID-SEASON HEATING INSPECTION

Report in with the customers' representative.

Verify smooth operation of the fans.

Check the belts for tension, wear, cracks, and glazing.

Verify clean air filters.

Verify proper operation of the heating section.

Verify the operation of the temperature controls.

Provide a written report of completed work, operating log, and indicate any uncorrected deficiencies
detected.

DEIDUEIDU

 

 31200 Bainbridge Road I- Solon, Ohio 44139 0 440-349-5538 6 440-349-3585 Fax 

?4501?!? AGREEMENT NUMBER: C004868 Renewal

SCHEDULES
Level Three Select Master Maintenance Agreement HOT WATER BOILER I BLR-100

COMPREHENSIVE ANNUAL INSPECTION

General Assembly
El Report in with the customers? representative.
Open the fire side for cleaning and inspection.
Check the heating surfaces for corrosion, pitting, scale, blisters, bulges and soot.
Inspect the refractory.
Check the expansion tank and drain if needed.
Clean the fire inspection glass, if applicable.
Check and test boiler blow-down valve.
Check the gas train isolation valves for leaks.
Check the gas supply piping for leaks.
Check the pilot solenoid valve for proper operation and leaks.
Check the main gas and the pilot gas regulators for proper operation and leaks.
Test the low gas pressure switch. Calibrate and record setting, if applicable.
Test the high gas pressure switch. Calibrate and record setting, if applicable.
Verify the operation of the burner fan air flow switch, if applicable.
Inspect and clean the burner assembly.
Inspect and clean the pilot igniter assembly.
Inspect and clean the burner fan wheel and all dampers.
Run the fan and check for vibration.
Inspect the flue and flue damper.
Burner Control Panel:
0 Inspect the panel for cleanliness.
0 Inspect wiring and connections for tightness and signs of overheating and discoloration.
Clean burner fan wheel and air dampers.
Verify tightness of the linkage set screws and lubricate ball joints.
Check the gas valves against leakage (where test cocks are provided).
Change fuel oil filters, if applicable
Cleanup unit and work area.



DUDUU

Controls and Safeties

El Clean contacts in program timer, if applicable.

I: Check the operation of the low water cutoff safety device and feed controls.

Verify the setting and test the operation of the operating and limit controls.

:1 Verify the operation of the water level control.

El Provide a written report of completed work and indicate any uncorrected deficiencies detected.

 

I31200 Bainbridge Road Solon, Ohio 44139 0 440-349-5588 440-349-3585 Fax 

 AGREEMENT NUMBER: C004868 Renewal

SCHEDULES
Level Three Select Master Maintenance Agreement HOT WATER BOILER BLR-1OO - Cont?d

RUNNING INSPECTION

Report in with the customers? representative.

Check the general condition of the unit.

Inspect the burner.

Adjust the burner controls to obtain proper combustion.

Check the operation ofthe pressure relief valve.

Check the operation of the low water cutoff and feed controls.

Check the setting and test the operation of the operating and limit controls.
Check the operation of the modulating motor.

Blow down low water cutoff if applicable.

Check and test boiler blow down valve.

Log operating conditions after the system has stabilized.

Review operating procedures with operating personnel.

Provide a written report of completed work, operating log, and indicate any uncorrected deficiencies
detected.



 

I31200 Bainbridge Road 0 Solon, Ohio 44139 0 440-349-5588 I 440-349-3585 Fax 17 of 35

 AGREEMENT NUMBER: C004868 Renewal

SCHEDULES
Level Three Select Master Maintenance Agreement FANS FAN-200

COMPREHENSIVE ANNUAL INSPECTION

General Assembly

Report in with the customers? representative.

Check unit for cleanliness.

Check sheaves and pulleys for wear and alignment.

Check belts for tension, wear, cracks, and glazing.

Verify tight bolts, set screws, and locking collars.

Check Inlet Guide Vanes (IGV) for wear and security, if applicable.
Verify proper blade clearance.

Verify proper operation ofthe IGVs, if applicable.

Verify the operation ofthe control system while the fan is operating.
Cleanup unit and work area.

DUUDDUUDUU

Lubrication
Lu bricate fan shaft bearings.
Lubricate motor bearings, if applicable.

Controls and Safeties
El Test the operation of the high static pressure safety device, if applicable.
:1 Calibrate and record reading.

Motor and Starter

Disable starter per lockout/tagout procedures.

Clean the starter and cabinet.

Inspect the wiring and connections for tightness and signs of overheating and discoloration.
Check the condition of the contacts for wear and pitting.

Check the contactor for free and smooth operation.

Meg the motor and record readings.

Provide a written report of completed work and indicate any uncorrected deficiencies detected.



RUNNING INSPECTION

Report in with the customers? representative.

Check the general condition of the fan.

Verify smooth operation of the fan.

Verify the operation of the control system.

Review operating procedures with operating personnel.

Provide a written report of completed work and indicate any uncorrected deficiencies detected.



 

:31200 Bainbridge Road 0 Solon, Ohio 44139 440-349-5588 a 440-349-3585 Fax 13 of 35

 

 AGREEMENT NUMBER: C004868 Renewal

SCHEDU LES
Level Three Select Master Maintenance Agreement AIR HANDLING UNIT 

COMPREHENSIVE ANNUAL INSPECTION

General Assembly

CI



Report in with the customers? representative.

Inspect the unit for cleanliness.

Inspect the fan wheel and shaft for wear and clearance.
Check the sheaves and pulleys for wear and alignment.
Check the belts for tension, wear, cracks, and glazing.
Verify tight bolts, set screws, and locking collars.

Check dampers for wear, security and linkage adjustment.
Verify clean condensate pan.

Verify proper operation ofthe condensate drain.

Verify clean air filters.

Verify clean coils.

Verify smooth fan operation.

Cleanup unit and work area.

Lubrication

Cl
CI

Lu bricate the fan shaft bearings, if applicable.
Lubricate the motor bearings, if applicable.

Controls and Safeties

El Verify setting of the low temperature safety device, if applicable.

El Test the operation of the high static pressure safety device, if applicable.

El Visually inspect electric heaters, if applicable.

El Check the step controller, if applicable.

I: Check and record supply air and control air pressure, if applicable.

El Verify the operation of the control system and dampers while the fan is operating

Motor and Starter

Disable starter per lockout/tag out procedures.

El Clean the starter and cabinet.

Inspect the wiring and connections for tightness and signs of overheating and discoloration. This includes
wiring to the electric heat, if applicable

:1 Check the condition of the contacts for wear and pitting.

Check the contactors for free and smooth operation.

El Meg the motor and record readings.

 

 31200 Bainbridge Road Solon, Ohio 44139 0 440-349-5588 0 440-349-3585 Fax 

 AGREEMENT NUMBER: (2004868 Renewal

SCH EDU LES
Level Three Select Master Maintenance Agreement AIR HANDLING UNIT AHU-100 Cont?d

RUNNING INSPECTION

Report in with the customers? representative.

Check the general condition of the fan.

Verify smooth fan operation.

Check and record supply and control air pressure, if applicable.
Check the belts for tension, wear, cracks and glazing.

Verify proper operation ofthe motor and starter.

Verify the operation of the control system.

Verify clean air filters.

Review operating procedures with operating personnel.
Provide a written report of completed work, operating log, and indicate uncorrected deficiencies
detected.



RUNNING INSPECTION HEATING

Report in with the customers? representative.
El Perform heating inspection/maintenance procedure applicable to the unit (steam/hot water, gas,
electric).
:1 Gas Heat Option-HTGl
Electric Heat Option-HTGZ
I: Hot Water/ Steam Heat Option-HTG3
Verify smooth operation of the fans.
Check the belts for tension, wear, cracks, and glazing.
Verify clean air filters.
Provide a written report of completed work, operating log, and indicate any uncorrected efficiencies
detected.



 

 31200 Bainbridge Road 0 Solon, Ohio 44139 0 440-349-5588 0 440-349-3585 Fax 

?l?nl?l? AGREEMENT NUMBER: C004868 Renewal

SCHEDULES
Level Three Select Master Maintenance Agreement IDRY COOLERI CLT-120

COMPREHENSIVE ANNUAL INSPECTION

 

General Assembly
I: Report in with the customer representative
Visually inspect condenser coils for cleanliness. Make recommendations if needed.
Visually inspect for leaks and report results.
Repair minor leaks as required valve packing, flare nuts).
Inspect fan blades and belts if applicable.
Cleanup unit and work area.

DECIDE

Controls and Safeties
Inspect the control panel for cleanliness.
Ci Inspect wiring and connections for tightness and signs of overheating and discoloration.
El Verify the working condition of all indicator/alarm lights, if applicable.

Lubrication System
El Lu bricate the fan bearings, if applicable.
CI Lu bricate condenser fan motors, if applicable.

Motor and Starter

Disable starter per lockout/tagout procedures.

Clean the starter and cabinet.

Inspect wiring and connections for tightness and signs of overheating and discoloration.

Check the contactors for free and smooth operation.

Check the condition of the contacts for wear and pitting.

Check the tightness of the motor terminal connections.

Verify the operation of the electrical interlocks.

Measure voltage and record.

Provide a written report of the completed work and indicate any uncorrected deficiencies detected.



DUDUEIDDEI

RUNNING INSPECTION

Report in with the customers? representative

Check the general condition of the unit.

Log the operating temperatures, pressures, voltages, and amperages.

Check the operation of the control circuit.

Check the operation of the lubrication circuit.

Check the operation ofthe motor and starter.

Analyze the recorded data.

Review operating procedures with operating personnel.

Provide a written report of completed work, operating log, and indicate any uncorrected deficiencies
detected.



 

 31200 Bainbridge Road I Solon, Ohio 44139 0 440-349-5588 0 440-349-3585 Fax

 AGREEMENT NUMBER: Renewal

SCHEDULES
Level Three Select Master Maintenance Agreement IA-C CONDENSING UNIT CDU-ZOO

COMPREHENSIVE ANNUAL INSPECTION

General Assembly
Cl Report in with the customer representative
Visually inspect condenser coils for cleanliness.
Visually inspect for leaks and report results.
Repair minor leaks as required valve packing, flare nuts).
Inspect fan blades and belts if applicable.
Cleanup unit and work area.



Controls and Safeties

El Inspect the control panel for cleanliness.

El Inspect wiring and connections for tightness and signs of overheating and discoloration.

Verify the working condition of all indicator/alarm lights, if applicable.

El Verify the operation of the low evaporator pressure safety device.

I: Test the low oil pressure safety device, if applicable. Calibrate and record setting, if applicable.

Lubrication System

Lubricate the fan bearings, if applicable.

Lubricate condenser fan motors, if applicable.

El Check oil level in the compressorls), if applicable.

Test oil for acid content and discoloration. Make recommendations to the customer based on the results
of the test.

Verify the operation of the oil heater. Measure amps and compare reading with the watt rating of the
heater, if applicable.

Cl DU



Motor and Starter
El Disable starter per lockout/tag out procedures.
Clean the starter and cabinet.
Inspect wiring and connections for tightness and signs of overheating and discoloration.
Check the contactors for free and smooth operation.
Check the condition of the contacts for wear and pitting.
Check the tightness ofthe motorterminal connections.
Verify the operation of the electrical interlocks.
Meg the compressor and condenser fan motors and record readings.
Verify the operation of the electrical interlocks.
Measure voltage and record.
Provide a written report of the completed work and indicate any uncorrected deficiencies detected.



 

I31200 Bainbridge Road 0 Solon, Ohio 44139 0 440-349-5588 0 440-349-3585 Fax 

El?n/?t? AGREEMENT NUMBER: C004868 Renewal

 

SCHEDULES
Level Three Select Master Maintenance Agreement IA-C CONDENSING UNIT CDU-ZOO Cont?d

RUNNING INSPECTION

Report in with the customers? representative

Check the general condition of the unit.

Log the operating temperatures, pressures, voltages, and am perages.

Check the operation of the control circuit.

Check the operation of the lubrication circuit.

Check the operation of the motor and starter.

Analyze the recorded data.

Review operating procedures with operating personnel.

Provide a written report of completed work, operating log, and indicate any uncorrected deficiencies
detected.



 

   

 31200 Bainbridge Road 0 Solon, Ohio 44139 0 440?349-5588 0 440-349?3585 Fax

 AGREEMENT NUMBER: COO4868 Renewal

SCHEDULES
Level Three Select Master Maintenance Agreement ICOMPUTER ROOM UNIT CRU-100

COMPREHENSIVE ANNUAL INSPECTION

General Assembly

Report in with the customers? representative.

Visually inspect for leaks and report the results.

Repair minor leaks as required valve packing, flare nuts).
Visually inspect the condenser for cleanliness.

Inspect pulleys and sheaves for wear and alignment.

Check belts for tension, wear, cracks, and glazing.

Verify clean evaporator coil, fan wheels, and condensate pan.
Clean and flush the condensate drain.

Verify clean air filters.

Clean the humidifier.

Verify proper operation ofthe humidifier.

Verify proper operation of the heating system (re-heat).
Check condenser fans for cracks, if applicable.

Cleanup unit and work area.



Controls and Safeties

Inspect the control panel for cleanliness.

Inspect wiring and connections fortightness and signs of overheating and discoloration.
Verify the working condition of all indicator/alarm lights.

Test the low evaporator pressure safety device. Calibrate and record setting, if applicable.
Test the high condenser pressure safety device. Calibrate and record setting, if applicable.
Verify proper operation of the temperature controls.

Verify proper operation of the humidity controls.

El

DECIDED

Lubrication

El Check the oil level in the compressor, if applicable.

El Test the oil for acid content and discoloration. Make recommendations to the customer based on the
results of the test.

El Verify the Operation of the oil heater, if applicable. Measure amps and compare the readings with the
watt rating of the heater.

Lu bricate the fan bearings as required.

El Lu bricate the motor bearings as required, if applicable.

 

I31200 Bainbridge Road CI Solon, Ohio 44139 0 440-349-5588 0 440-349-3585 Fax 

 AGREEMENT NUMBER: C004868 Renewal

 

SCHEDULES
Level Three Select Master Maintenance Agreement ICOMPUTER ROOM UNIT CRU-100 Cont?d

Motor and Starter

El

UUDDUUDU

Disable starter per lockout/tag out procedures.

Clean the starter and cabinet.

Inspect wiring and connections for tightness and signs of overheating and discoloration.

Check the condition of the contacts for wear and pitting.

Check the contactors for free and smooth operation.

Check the tightness of the motor terminal connections.

Meg the compressor motor(s) and record readings.

Verify the operation of the electrical interlocks.

Provide a written report of completed work, operating log, and indicate any uncorrected deficiencies
detected.

RUNNING INSPECTION



Report in with the customers? representative.

Verify the operation of the oil heater, if applicable.

Verify clean air filters.

Verify smooth operation of the compressor and fans.

Verify the starter operation, amperage, and voltage.

Verify the operation of the humidifier, if applicable.

Verify the operation of the heating system.

Check the set point and sensitivity of the temperature and humidity control device.

Provide a written report of completed work, operating log, and indicate any uncorrected deficiencies
detected.

 

 31200 Bainbridge Road 0 Solon, Ohio 44139 0 440-349-5588 0 440-349-3585 Fax 

 AGREEMENT NUMBER: COO4868 Renewal

SCHEDULES
Level Three Select Master Maintenance Agreement IPROGRAMMABLE CONTROLLER CNT-100

RUNNING INSPECTION

CI Report in with the Customer Representative.

El Review customer logs with the customer for operational problems and trends.

Make a back-up copy of the program, if applicable.

I: Check for loose or damaged parts or wiring.

El Check for any accumulation of dirt or moisture. Clean if required.

El Verify proper grounding.

El Inspect interconnecting cables and electrical connections.

I: Verify power supply for proper voltage.

Verify proper communication link operation between the control panel and the external ICS devices, if
applicable.

El Verify that equipment is being controlled at the appropriate values

El Change one set point value, verify smooth transition and stable control at the new set point.

Return set point to original value

El Repeat for each additional control loop.

El Verify that controlled values and dampers will stroke fully in both directions, sealing where
appropriate.

El Verify the proper operation of critical control processes and points associated with this unit. Make
adjustments if necessary.

Cl Verify the correct time and date, if applicable.

El Check modem operation, if applicable.

El Clean the external surfaces of the panel enclosure.

Review operating procedures with operating personnel.

Provide a written report of completed work, and indicate any uncorrected deficiencies detected.

 

131200 Bainbridge Road 0 Solon, Ohio 44139 9 440-349-5588 I 440-349-3585 Fax 

 

 AGREEMENT NUMBER: C004868 Renewal

SCHEDULES
Level Three Select Master Maintenance Agreement FREEZERS ICE MAKERS MSG-100

RUNNING INSPECTION

Report in with the customers' representative.

Check general operation of unit.

Inspect for leaks.

Repair minor leaks.

Clean condenser coil.

Clean drain pans. (If applicable)

Verify operation of defrost timer (If applicable)

Verify operation of defrost heater (If applicable)

Verify operation of all other safeties and controls.

Lubricate motor and fan bearings.

Inspect wiring and connections for tightness and signs of overheating and discoloration.
Verify smooth operation of compressors and fans.

Review operating procedures with operating personnel.

Provide a written report of completed work and indicate any uncorrected deficiencies detected.



 

 31200 Bainbridge Road 0 Solon, Ohio 44139 0 440-349-5588 I 440-349?3585 Fax 27 of 35

 AGREEMENT NUMBER: C004868 Renewal

SCHEDULES
Level Three Select Master Maintenance Agreement MSG-150

RUNNING INSPECTION

Report in with the customers? representative

Visually inspect the heat exchanger.

Inspect the combustion air blower fan, and clean, if required.

Lubricate the combustion air blower fan motor, if applicable.

Lubricate the blower fan motor, if applicable.

Verify the operation of the combustion air flow-proving device.

Verify the operation of the flame detection device.

Verify the integrity of the flue system.

Verify the operation of the operating controls.

Verify the burner sequence of operation.

Verify proper gas pressure to the unit and/or at the manifold, if applicable.
Cleanup unit and work area

Provide a written report of completed work and indicate any uncorrected deficiencies detected.



 

 31200 Bainbridge Road 0 Solon, Ohio 44139 0 440?349-5588 0 440-349-3585 Fax 

El?n/?l? AGREEMENT NUMBER: C004868 Renewal

SCHEDULES
Level Three Select Master Maintenance Agreement IGAS HOT WATER HEATER MSC-170

RUNNING INSPECTION

General Assembly
Report in with the customers? representative.
Check the general condition of the unit.
Check for water and fuel leaks
Inspect the flue for holes and/or stoppage.
Verify clean burner assembly.
Verify proper combustion air to the burner.
Verify proper draft.
Verify proper operation of the temperature control device
Verify operating procedures with operating personnel.
Cleanup unit and work area.
Provide a written report of completed work, and indicate any uncorrected deficiencies detected



 

 31200 Bainbridge Road a Solon, Ohio 44139 0 440-349-5588 6 440-349-3585 Fax 29 of 35

(Mal/1:5

SCHEDULES
Level Three Select Master Maintenance Agreement ONLY UNITS MSG-200

RUNNING INSPECTION

General Assembly

Cl



Report in with the customers? representative

Check the general condition of the unit.

Verify tightness of the fan, fan guards, louvers, etc.

Inspect the flue for holes and/or stoppage. If applicable.

Verify clean burner assembly. If applicable.

Check sheaves and pulleys for wear and alignment, if applicable.
Check belts for tension, wear, cracks, and/or glazing.

Verify the integrity of the heat exchanger. If applicable.

Verify operating procedures with the operating personnel.
Cleanup unit and work area.

Lubrication

El
El

Lubricate the fan motor, if applicable.
Lubricate the fan bearings as necessary.

Controls and Safeties

El

El
El
El

Verify proper operation of the temperature control device.
Verify proper operation of the high temperature control device.
Verify proper operation of the fan switch.

Verify proper operation of the pilot safety device, if applicable.

Electrical


El

Inspect wiring and connections for tightness and signs of overheating and discoloration.
Provide a written report of completed work, and indicate any uncorrected deficiencies detected.

 

JSIZOO Bainbridge Road I Solon, Ohio 44139 0 440-349-5588 0 440-349-3585 Fax

AGREEMENT NUMBER: C004868 Renewal January 1, 2020

El?n/?l? AGREEMENT NUMBER: C004868 Renewal

 

SCHEDULES
Level Three Select Master Maintenance Agreement PMP-100

COMPREHENSIVE ANNUAL INSPECTION

General Assembly

Report in with the customers? representative.
Check motor shaft and pump shaft for alignment, if applicable.
I: inspect the coupling for wear.
El Verify that the shaft guard is in place and tight, if applicable.
I: Verify water flow through the pump.
El Check for leaks on the mechanical pump seals, if applicable.
El Verify proper drip rate on the pump seal packing, if applicable.
I: Check sheaves and pulleys for wear and alignment, if applicable
El inspect belts for tension, wear, cracks, and glazing, if applicable
El Cleanup unit and work area.

Lubrication
El Lubricate the motor bearings as necessary.
I: Lubricate the pump bearings as necessary.

Motor and Starter

El

DUUDUU

Disable starter per lockout/tag out procedures.

Clean the starter and cabinet.

Inspect wiring and connections for tightness and signs of overheating and discoloration.

Check the condition of the contacts for wear and pitting.

Check the contactors for free and smooth operation.

Verify proper volts and amps.

Provide a written report of completed work, operating log, and indicate any uncorrected deficiencies
detected.

RUNNING INSPECTION



Report in with the customers? representative.

Verify smooth operation ofthe pump.

Check for leaks on pump seal.

Verify proper drip rate on the pump seal packing, if applicable.

Lubricate the motor and pump bearings as necessary, if applicable.

Provide a written report of completed work, operating log, and indicate any uncorrected deficiencies
detected.

 

 

 31200 Bainbridge Road 0 Solon, Ohio 44139 0 440-349-5588 0 440-349-3585 Fax 

 AGREEMENT NUMBER: C004868 Renewal

 

SCHEDULES
Level Three Select Master Maintenance Agreement CIRCULATING PUMP PMP-ZOO

RUNNING INSPECTION

Report in with the customers? representative.

Verify smooth operation ofthe pump.

Check for leaks on pump seal.

Verify proper drip rate on the pump seal packing, if applicable.

Lubricate the motor and pump bearings as necessary, if applicable.

Provide a written report of completed work and indicate any uncorrected deficiencies detected.

DECIDED

 

 31200 Bainbridge Road 4: Solon, Ohio 44139 0 440-349-5588 a 440-349-3585 Fax 32 of 35

64mm]:

SCHEDULES
Level Three Select Master Maintenance Agreement HEATER UNH-1OD

RUNNING INSPECTION

General Assembly

El



Report in with the customers? representative.

Check the general condition of the unit.

Verify tightness of the fan, fan guards, louvers, etc.
Inspect the flue and heat exchanger for holes and/or stoppage.
Verify clean burner assembly.

Cleanup unit and work area.

Light the pilot and start the unit.

Verify proper combustion air to the burner.

Verify proper draft.

Verify operating procedures with operating personnel.
Cleanup unit and work area.

Lubrication

El

Lubricate the fan motor, if applicable.

Controls and Safeties

El



Verify proper operation of the temperature control device.
Verify proper operation of the pilot safety device, if applicable.
Verify proper operation of the high temperature control device.
Verify proper operation of the fan switch.

Electrical

El
El

Inspect wiring and connections for tightness and signs of overheating and discoloration.
Provide a written report of completed work, and indicate any uncorrected deficiencies detected.

 

 31200 Bainbridge Road a Solon, Ohio 44139 0 440-349-5588 0 440-349-3585 Fax

AGREEMENT NUMBER: C004868 Renewal January 1, 2020

33 of 35

?l?nl?l? AGREEMENT NUMBER: C004868 Renewal

SCHEDULES
Level Three Select Master Maintenance Agreement AIR VOLUME UNITS 

VARITRANE RUNNING INSPECTION

Report in with the customers? representative.

Record and report abnormal conditions, measurements taken, etc.
Review with customer operational problems and trends.

Verify proper air valve operation from the zone sensor or EMS system.
Verify VAV box sequence of operation.

Check and adjust all related controls.

Verify clean air filters, if applicable.

Cleanup unit and work area.

Provide written report of completed work.



 

 31200 Bainbridge Road 0 Solon, Ohio 44139 0 440-349-5588 0 440-349-3585 Fax 

 AGREEMENTNUMBER. comssaenewa.

 

 

 

SCHEDULES

 

Level Three Select Master Maintenance Agreement
AIR-COOLED CONDENSER COIL CLEANING COS-200
AIR FILTER INSPECTION FLR-1OO

AIR COOLED CONDENSER COIL CLEANING

 



Report in with the customers? representative.

Disable unit per lockout tag out procedures.

Clean air cooled condenser coils using pressurized water. (Opposite path of air.)
Enable unit.

Cleanup work area.

Provide a written report of completed work.

AIR FILTER INSPECTION

 

RUNNING INSPECTION
The Service Company will furnish filter inspections during the operating season for the air handling units under
this Service Agreement as indicated below:

Disposable Filters

El

UDDUUD

Report in with the customers? representative.

Remove dirty disposable filters.

Install propertype and size disposable filers per air flow markings.
Verify spacers are in place if needed.

Clean filter section of debris.

Dispose of old filters per Service Agreement.

Provide written report of completed work.

 

 31200 Bainbridge Road - Solon, Ohio 44139 440-349-5588 I 440-349-3585 Fax 

Attachment #8

Summit County Developmental Disabilities Board
TOPIC SUMMARY REPORT

 

TOPIC [55 ONCERN REC OMMENDA HON

 

Allocation of resources Annual maintenance licensing The Board approve the request to

for support contracts fees for main servicing application enter into contracts with Primary
in 2020 Solutions in 2020 for an amount not to

exceed $67,804

 

 

 

SUPPORTING DA TA FOR RECOMMENDA TI 0?

 

Total Cost: Not to exceed $67,804 in 2020

Summary
Summit DD uses the Gatekeeper system provided by Primary Solutions as its main application for

tracking individuals we serve and managing billing activities.

The annual license cost for Gatekeeper will be $53,994 in 2020, a 0.8% decrease from the 2019
licensing cost.

Summit DD uses 0hioDD.com provided by Primary Solutions for tracking billing and utilization of
services.

The annual license cost for 0hioDD.com will be $8,810 in 2020, a 2.5% increase over the 2019
licensing cost.

Summit DD also has $5,000 budgeted in 2020 for customized work and training from Primary
Solutions that is beyond what is included in the above licensing agreements. This is a rough estimate

amount, and actual costs are likely to be less.

The combined licensing and support costs for Gatekeeper, 0hioDD.com, and any custom support will
be a maximum of $67,804 for all of 2020, which is allocated in the 2020 budget. This is $171 less
than the 2019 allocation.

It is recommended that the Board approve the request to enter into contracts with Primary Solutions
in 2020 for an amount not to exceed $67,804.

 

 

Submitted By: Russ DuPlain For: Superintendent/Assistant Superintendent
Finance Facilities Committee
Date: November 2019 Services Supports Committee

 

Committee

 

Attachment #9
Summit County Developmental Disabilities Board

 

 

TOPIC SUMMARY REPORT
TOPIC RECOMMENDA no?
Security and Criminal Safety and security of individuals Renew a contract with Summit County
Investigation services and staff at Summit DD and Sheriff?s of?ce for a 12-month term to
for Summit DD criminal investigations on behalf of provide security and increase

individuals served by Summit DD. investigation services at a cost not to
exceed $246,888.01 from January 1,
2020 through December 31, 2020.

 

 

 

SUPPORHNG DA TA FOR RECOMMENDA TION

 

 

 

Service Area: Health Welfare
Amount of Increase] Decrease: $7,229

. The $242,888.01 contract with the Summit County Sherriff?s of?ce provides an assigned deputy
and vehicle to be responsible to patrol both inside the facility and outside parking areas at the
Administration building and other Summit DD Sites. In addition, the deputy will take initial
criminal noti?cations and complete initial police reports for Major Unusual Incidents of a criminal
nature.

. The contract also provides on Summit County Sherriff?s detective to investigate criminal cases,
including conducting relevant interviews, searching for community suspects, gathering evidence,
obtaining warrants, grand jury/courtroom testimonials, and any other duties based on case-
speci?c demands.

. The Detective will also coordinate with the Summit County Prosecutor?s Of?ce and other law
enforcement jurisdictions as needed to educate the community concerning criminal cases
involving individuals with developmental disabilities.

. To date in 2019 there have been 33 arrests (20 misdemeanor and 13 felony).

. Up to $4,000 additional per year to purchase security at events that external entities hold at
Summit DD buildings, such as Special Olympics dances.

Recommended for approval by the October
Finance Facilities and Services Supports Committees.

 

 

 

Submitted By: Billie David For: Superintendent/Assistant Superintendent
Finance Facilities Committee
Date: 10/3/19 Services Supports Committee

 

 

Committee

 

POLICIN CONTRACT

THIS POLICJNG CONTRACT (hereafter "Contract?) is made and entered into as of the date
signed by the County Bxemrtive by and amongst the Summit County Developmental
Disabilities Board (hereinafter with its of?ce located at 89 East Howe Road,
Tallmadge, Ohio 44278, the County of Summit, Ohio, by the County Executive (hereafter
"County"), as duly authorized by County Council Resolution No. ,enacted on

,20_ with its o?ices located at 175 South Main Street, Akron, Ohio

44308 and the Sheriff of Summit Coimty, Ohio (hereafter "Sheriff? with its of?ce located at 53

University Avenue, Akron, Ohio 44308.
WITNESSETH:

WHEREAS, DD desires to obtain policing services, as further described herein, by
and through the Sheriff and County; and

WHEREAS, the Sheriff and County shall provide such policing services to SUMMIT DD in
accordance with the terms as set forth in this Contract.

THEREFORE, in consideration of the covenants and promises made herein, the parties agree as
follows:

1. Services. The Sheri??s Of?ce will be the Primary law Enforcement Agency in Summit
County to receive 24/7 noti?cations of potential criminal acts involving persons with disabilities
and shall provide SUMMIT DD with Deputy Sheriffs (hereafter ?Deputies") to provide policing
services (herca?er "Services") as follows:

The total number of Deputies provided to SUMMIT DD during the term of this Contact will
be as follows:

(2) two Deputies - (1) one (Detective) (I) one Deputy (Security),

Deputy will be scheduled by the Sheriff to provide SUMMIT DD with Services for Five (51
Eight Hour Shifts per wide? as may be adjusted if necessary by the Sheriff or his
designee.

The Deputy?s time shall be entirely devoted to MUI investigations and other duties as
outlined in Schedule B. The Deputy will not perform any job duties which are outside the
scope of their employment as a Deputy

The Deputy shall be in addition to the personnel regularly employed by the Sheriff to
preserve the public peace throughout the County.

The Deputy will be granted the right to exercise all of the same police powers and all other
law enforcement rights granted to SUMMIT DD.

2. The Sheriff will provide a Deputy with Two (2) Vehicles per shift, equipment
and supplies, including any and all maintenance as necessary, to perfonn the Services provided
hereunder.

3. Term. The term of this Contact is (1.) one year commencing on January 1. 2020 and will
terminate at midnight on December 31. 2020 ("Tennination Date") unless earlier tenninated
because of default as provided in Paragraph 9 herein or if SUMMIT DD funding is not
available. The contract can not be terminated by either party for no cause during the (1) one
year: If a new Contract has not been executed as of the Termination Date (December 3] 2020),
then upon the written consent of all parties the Contract may continue after the Termination Date
under the same terms and conditions, except the term shall be on a month?to-month basis until

Page 2 of5

either party tenninates the Contract upon thirty (30) days written notice or the parties execute a
new Contract. The release provided hereunder shall survive the termination of this Contract.

4. Payment.
During the can of this Agreement, the costs for salaries and vehicle costs are estimated

as follows:
See Schedule A attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.

Total Amount of Contract: 
*As may be adjusted as provided herein.

SUMMIT DD agrees to pay for the aggregate annual salaries of all the Deputies
providing Services and the vehicle costs in equal installments without any right of
setoff The Payment shall be the amounts set forth above, however, at
any time during the term of this Contract the Payment will be increased to include salary
increases, renegotiated labor contract terms, insurance increases and other in?ationary
adjustments. Since the increased costs are not known at this time, SUMMIT DD understand
and agree that the Payment will be increased to include such costs when incurred. In addition
to the Payment, a surcharge shall be charged upon notice from the County in the event fuel,
insurance or other operating costs increases at any time during any term of this Contact
("Surcharge"). If the operating costs (such as the cost of fuel) decreases and remains at the
lower cost for at least 30 days, then the Surcharge will be adjusted to re?ect the decrease in
such operating costs. The in?ationary adjustments and Surcharges shall be charged to
SUMMIT DD on December 31, of each year (when such actual amounts are known) and
shall be payable within sixty (60) days after receiving the invoice.

In addition to the above stated policing services, the rate also includes but is not limited to
provisions of all equipment, and supplies by the Sheriff; supervision of deputies, all training
and ?rearms quali?cations, administrative and clerical costs.

The Payment will cover and pay the expenses of the Deputies salaries (which is the
regular salary and no overtime pay), equipment costs, hospitalization, cmrent ?mding costs
for retirement pensions and Workers' Compensation for the detective assigned to SUMMIT
DD under this Contract; also the costs for training, equipment and supphes which will
include the use of the vehicles as set forth above for use under this Contract.

SUMMIT DD is required to make the Payment for Deputies that are absent due to
personnel related matters such as vacation or illness. The estimated annual salary for a
Deputy is set forth in Schedule A and is subject to salary increases during the Term.

The Payment does not include: over-time pay (no additional hours beyond regular
working hours), additional costs for court appearances or the assignment of any additional
Deputies (collectively "Additional Costs"). Any Additional Costs shall be paid by SUMMIT
DD to the County within 30 days of incurring such costs.

(1) Payment shall be sent to: Policing Rotary Fund
cfo Summit County Sheriffs Of?ce

53 University Avenue

Page 3 of 5

DO

Akron, Ohio 44308

Duties and Quali?cations. The Deputies assigned to SUMMTT DD pursuant to this
Agreement shall have the same powers and duties, the same quali?cations, shall be
appointed, paid and receive the same bene?ts and provisions and shall be governed by the
same laws as all other County Deputy Sheriff?s.

Release. The County will not be liable and is released from any claims, causes of action
(including but not limited to negligence), or expenses of any kind or nature which are
asserted SUMMIT DD. SUMMIT DD acknowledges and understands that the
County's insurance carrier only provides insurance coverage for the County and Deputies
acting within the scope of their employment. SUMMIT DD is not provided insuxanoe
coverage under the County's insurance policy and SUMMIT DD must provide for its own
insurance policy or self-insurance coverage.

Default. If SUMMIT DD fails to make any payments due hereunder or fails to abide by the
terms of this Contract, then SUMMIT DD shall he in default. The County or Sheriff shall
provide notice of such default and if SUMMIT DD fails to cure such default within thirty
(30) days, then the County may inunediately terminate this Contract and all amounts owed as
of the date of termination shall remain an obligation of SUMMIT DD.

. This Contract constitutes the entire agreement amongst the parties and

supersedes any prior understanding or agreement related thereto. This Contract can only be
amended or modi?ed by the prior written consent of all parties.

Page4of5

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Contract as of the date signed by the
County Executive.

SUMIMIT COUNTY DEVELPOMENTAL DISABILITIES BOARD

Approved as to Correctness and Form:

 

By: ?mm 
Printedene:Joth.TrImk BY: 
Title: Supe?ntendeut

SHERIFF OF SULIMIT COUNTY, OHIO

By: 
Steve Barr}r
Sheriff, County of Summit, Ohio

COUNTY OF OHIO

By:

 

Hen?e Shapiro Iii-ate
Executive, County of Summit, Ohio

Approved as to Correctness and Form:


Deborah S. Matz, Director
Department of Law

 

Page 5 of5

SUMIMIT DD

ELM Wm .61? Ht Total Q?izy?ga
.1 1/1/20 - 12/31/29),
2020 hours 

2020 Vehicle/Ann Annual)
(1/1/20-12/31/20)

(11?3 Shi?)= 040. 67 per shift

Schedule A

2 Deputies- detective, 1 security
3,335.20 Deputy hours

2 Vehicles (2 shi?s)

2 Radios

226,326.67

 

040 67 shi? 2 V611. 16,081.34
Dispatch {Aiming/1} (waived) 0.00
Radios
$240.00 2 480.00
2020 Total 3 242,888.01} 12 $20,240.66
Per month
Total: 

*As may be adjusted as provided herein.

Solwdule E:
ii The new ?client/Security) will perform the following duties for the Summit County Board

2}

3i

of DD:
e] Patrol the Bulimia et Howe live on an ongoing buts throughout sdreduied

work days. .
hi Petrol other Summit DD sites weekly. 
ti Compl?on of police Writ fororlmiruri MUi's reported and common iontion of criminal

determination: to the Sumit on end imrestimive Agents.

Tire Deputy intuitive! will perform the following duties for Sumn County DD:

a} Lead unionization duties for all new: which fit criminal criteria. including but not Iirnlted to:

conducting tolerant interview, searching ior community mopeds. gathering 

obtain? wen-em gunnery/courtroom testlnionlals. and any other duties based on tree-

speci?c demands. All duties will meet the requirements outiinedin the Ohio

code action 5113:2-17-62.

communionte with the Sunni! Dnunty Promoter?s alike, as well or other local law

enforcement entitle; when memory or requested hythe Summit County on Board.

e] Present the Wharton ?le to the the one.

d) Complete hwestlgetory reports as perShErl??s Dillon protocol, and share Information In
writtenend verbal form tothe assigned inuesthetlve Agent for inelmlon in the Mill written
report. Consult with invesmstive Agents or neededfrequested to oorrununieete relevant
findings and details ofthe mm

Both Deputies will perform the followha duties for the Summit County on Board:

oi Traci: arrests and prosewtlonofcriner developmental disabilities for
reporting purposes. .

b} Provide use activity reportsend ennuei summaries to the arr-omit on Finlnee
and the Summit Comrty Sheriff's O?'loe imam Bureau
Conunanden WW reports sisal provide on accounting ofthe Deputies' hours worked

bl

forum month.
t) Attend runny MUI Unit departmental meetiwr to footer communication hem?
We: Agents end Deputies, or well as communicate any departmental donors in



ri] Use Summit DD technology and scheme to oomrnunicete between departments and enter
domntetiou into the Summit on document moment system.

e) Summit DD pmonnel as requested into potentially unsafe situations. where risk

of harm may Ire imitated.
Perform emergency removal: ofdevelopmenteliy disabled individuals (per Sheriff'ecfiioe

imminent riskef harm is Indicated.
3) Assist investigative Agents in conducting cm: intervention Team {cm and/or other
relevanttreininse mending the interface between police of?cers.ond individuae served by

Summit DD.
Assist In eduoetlrg regarding the ability of persons senred to testify

In criminal proceedings, and the overall Mill lmrestigtory promos. 
Attend trainings specific to Individuals with developmental disabilities es offered.

h}

Attachment #10
Summit County Developmental Disabilities Board

 

 

TOPIC SUMMARY REPORT
TOPIC RECOMMENDATION -
Allocation of Upgrade to existing phone system The Board approve the request to
resources for enter into contracts with Altura in
contracts in 2019 2019 for an amount not to exceed
$105,502

 

 

 

SUPPORTING DA TA FOR RECOMMENDA HON

 

Total Cost: Not to exceed $105,502

Summit DD is in need of an upgrade to the phone system, which was originally purchased around 8
years ago and has not been upgraded since then. The upgrade to the phone system will:
. Allow staff to work remotely, yet still use their work phone number
. Allow work calls to be handled via a computer or cell phone
- Enable ?twinning? to seamlessly hand calls off between a physical desk phone, cell phone,
and/or computer
. Allow the existing phones to be used with the new upgraded system, resulting in over
$100,000 in savings vs buying a whole new system
Improve disaster recovery for our phone system
Leverage more modern technology for call routing and handling
Stage Summit DD to be able to move to different buildings without loss of phone system
functionality

This system upgrade will be purchased from Altura, the vendor that supports the existing phone
system. Since this is sole-source it will not be going out for RFP.

 

 

 

 

Existing licensing annual maintenance $21,817
recurring costs prior to upgrade)

New and updated licenses and prepaid $23,252

maintenance

Professional services for installation and $60,433

con?guration (one-time costs)

Total $105,502

 

 

 

 

The total cost of annual software maintenance, licenses, and professional services will be a
maximum of $105,502, and funding is available in the 2019 budget.

It is recommended that the Board approve the request to enter into contracts with Altura for an
amount not to exceed $105,502.

 

 

 

 

Submitted By: Russ DuPlain For: Superintendent/Assistant Superintendent
Finance 8: Facilities Committee
Date: October 2019 Services Supports Committee
Committee

Recomimeded for approval by the October
Finance 8. Facilities Committee

 

Soles Order

Aliuro Communication Solutions ALTU A
Lug.

1335 South Acacia Ave.
FullertoaCA,92831 communlcation solutions

Exhibii A Order Form

Quote For MASTER SALES AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT ("Agreement")
dated November 08, 2017 by and between Altura Communication Solutions, LLC and

Summit DI) (?Customer')

PREMISES SERVICES PERFORMED FOR:
Summit DD Summit DD

Site: Summit Hub Site: Summit Hub

89 E. Howe St. 89 E. Howe St.

Tallmedge, Ohio 44278 Tallmedge, Ohio 44278

Ron Plagens Ron Plagms
rplagens@summitdd.org rplagens@summitdd.org

PRICING 8: DATES

Purchase Price $82,395.73 Contract Presented September 30, 2019
Support Paid Up-Front $1,239.00 Delivery TBD
TOTAL $83,684.73 Start TBD
Support to be billed $0.00 Cutover 
In Service TBD
Int?rr?kg twink/[M and .rsz?ping 1f by! ?cha?ng Jam's Esrt'mafm'
ATTACHMENTS

0 Exhibit A, Exhibit and Schedule 1
0 Support Details
0 Parts Details

Upon execution by both parties, this Order arm shall be incorporated into the Agreement.

Aliuro Communication Solutions, LLC Summit DD

BY

Name Altura Contract Administration Name Title Director of Contract dmimsttauon Title .45 (7 i C. (5777K.

Date Date

Jab: Order #1974??0?r lanai: DD - October 08, 2015' Page I 

Schedule-I @0013 8. Exhibit 

This quote is onlygood for 45 days, effective: 10/08/2019.

   

   

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

Upon executiOn by both parties, this Schedule shall be incorporated into the Agreement.

Allurc: Communication Solu?ons. LLC
BY

Name Altura Contract Administration

Title Director of Contract Administration

Date

Idler Older #797430j0r3mm't DD 0170510 08. 2019

Summit DD

 

Pager 2 01? .5

Avaya Hardware $14,446.00 06.95000 
Avaya Software $450.00 $225.00 5
Avaya Licenses $10,050.00 . $5,900.00 3
Alloy: Solullons $24,040.00 $13,075.00 
Freight Solullon $12.23 $72.23
xmedlus Solution $11,020.00 $8,816.00 .
Other Solutions $11,092.23 $0,083.23
5
Solutions Total $30,030.23 $21,953.23
Ntura lnsloll Labor 015.595.00 010,595.00
Altura meessiona] Services $43,037.50 3 $43,037.50 
lnolallatlon Total $60,432.50 $50,432.50
TOTAL Solution and Installation I $95,470.73 332395.73 
Other Third Party Support PP $1,611.25 51.289.00
SUPPORT Polo Up-Frunt 51.01115 $1,239.00 
SUPPORT TOTAL $1,011.25 31.20900
TOTAL At Time of Sale I $00,001.08 503.634.73
GRAND TOTAL $98,031.93 $83,604.All Pricing Excluding Taxes
30.00% Down Payment ?5.10542
50.00% Delivery $50,210.84
10.00% Due at Acceplance $8,388.47?

Support Details

        

 

 

 

 

 

XMEDIUS Standard XpressCare - cx-E i 
mutants-on licenses - mommy pro-rated (1.25% or MSLP 12 months 11 53.43 5459.25 mud 533.40 $367.40
per Irmlh) PP 
XMEDIUS Standout XpressCare - Speech . I
1090-9534500 "Dams 1 year (per ream) (15% HELP) PF 1 12 months a 516.00 51.15230 $153.50! $921.60
I
I I outer Support PP $1.289 oo
OTHER SUPPORT Tom. 51259 0c:J

 

 

AN Annual Payment
PP Prepaid Payment

The End Customer may terminate their .rltvaya Support Advantage Services at any time during the current term upon at
least 45 days written notice and shall be subject to payment of: (1) Support Advantage charges up to and including the
date of termination, and (ii) cancellation fees. Cancellation fees shall be equal to the greater of Support Advantage
charges that w0uld otherwise be payable for the affected Support Advantage coverage for the remainder of the year of
the Term in effect as of the effective date of the termination OR, 50% of the remainder of the Term in effect as of the
effective date of the termination. The parties agree that the cancellation fees are liquidated damages comprising a
reasonable estimate of Avaya's damages in the event of the Customer's early termination and are not a penalty. Unless
already paid, the cancellalion fees shall be immediately due and payable upon cancellation.

Maintenance Start Date
Due Upon Commencement of Manufacturer Support Contract

Safer Order #197430?r Imam! DD - Goober 08. 2019 Peg! 3 (31?s

POFTS 9610.115,

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

700513034 .1100 IP PHONE GLOBAL NO POWER SUPPLY 10 - $370.00 $3,700.00 mm 09 Howe Rd 1 5105.00 $1,050.00
4053021141 POWER CORD USA 1 023.00 1123.00 Lap 00 East News R0 I 511.50 511.50
700512174 G430 MR40 MED1A GATEWAY NON-GSA 1 52,100.00 32,100.00 Lap 501 Hopocan Ave . 51.05000 01.05000
405362041 POWER CORD USA 1 $23.00 $23.00 Lop 501 Hopooan A110 011.50 511.50
700304001 MM711 ANALOG MEDIA MODULE RHS 1 51.00000 01.00000 Main 09 Hm R11 $000.00 500000
7005143317 .1100 EXPANSION MODULE 24 1 0205.00 5295.00 Main 00 Howe R0 5147.50 0147.50
700513030 .11201P PHONE GLOBAL NO POWER SUPPLY 15 $125.00 $1,075.00 Main 09 Howe R0 362.50 $037.50
700512174 G430 MP40 MEDIA GATEWAY NON-GSA 1 32,100.00 32,100.00 up E431 Howe Rd 51.05000 $1,050.00
7005131300 .11701P PHONE GLOBAL NO POWER SUPPLY 6 5455.00 02,730.00 1110111 00 Howe Rd $102.00 $1,002.00
AURA SYSTEM MANAGER R0 VE YAPPLIANOE .
307272 SYSTEM EMBLEMENT 1 30.00 50100 Mam 00 Home Rd 30.00 50.00
SESSION MANAGER R0 YE YAPPLIANDE SYSTEM .
307003 EMBLEMENT 1 30.00 5000 Mam 00 Howe Rd 50.00 50.00
DEVICE SERVICES R0 VE VAPPLIANGE SYSTEM .
307037 EWLEMENT 1 50.00 30 00 Mam 00 Howe Rd 5000 00.00
700514000 AURA SESSION MANAGER R01 DVD 1 550.00 050.00 Main 00 Home R0 325.00 025.00
307174 AURA R0 CM VE VAPPLIANCE SYS ENABLEMENT 1 5000 0000 Main 00 Howe Rd 50.00 50.00
307230 VE CODE NEW 1 50.00 50.00 mm Howe Rd 50.00 50.00
307000 3:35;; OVA 1 30.00 5000 Main 00 Howe R0 5000 50.00
AURA R0 CM DUPLICATE MAC VE VAPPLIANCE .
307175 5Y5 ENABLEMENT 1 00.00 30.00 Mam 00 Hm Rd 0000 30.00
307220 ASBOE Ra VE VAPP ENABLEMENT 1 5400.00 0400.00 Mom 00 Howe Rd 0200.00 $200.00
231020 AVAYA AURATM RPA To PLDS CONVERSION 1 00.00 50.00 Main 00 Howe R0 150.00 30.00
307041 SESSION MANAGER R0 SYSTEM 1 01.30000 51,300.00 Main 00 Howe R0 I 3050.00 5050.00
307207 AURA SYSTEM MANAGER R0 1 30.00 50.00 mm 00 Howe Rd 30.00 30.00
AURA R0 CM PLATFORM SOLUTION . I
307170 UPGRADE TRACKING 1 30.00 50.00 Mam 00 Howe Rd 30.00 30.00
307104 ?g'i?rfusu'm R5 SEAT "7 "5 350 $0.00 3000 Main 00 Howe Rd $0.00 50.00
AURA SUITE R0 INTG MGMT SITE
307134 ADMINISTRATION R0 "5 ?cm I 00.00 3000 Main 00 Hm Rd 5000 00.00
250401 MEDIA ENORYPTION mm 1 50.00 5000 Main 00 Howe Rd I 50.00 30.00
AURA R0 CORE SUITE UPGRADEIUPUFT UA
307100 SOFTWARE WCUSR 350 525.00 00,750.00 Maln 09 Howe Rd I 515.00 55,250.00
307113 ?g'?usu'm RB PRESENCE SEWCES RB ?5 350 $0.00 5000 Main 00 Howo R0 50.00 30.00
1
307114 R8 ?55 DESKTOP ?8 1' 350 5000 50.00 Mom 00 Howe Rd 5000 5000
1 I
307115 317333? R3 ?5335 R3 STANDARD SERMCES 100 00.00 50.00 Main 00 Howe R0 30.00! 50.00
1
307135 ?g?gusu'm BREEZE USER ?5 350 $0.00 1000 Main 00 Hows Rd . 50.00 30.00
AURA SUITE R0 ASBCE R0 STANDARD HIGH
307117 AWL new I 100 $0.00 50.00 mm 00 Howe Rd 50.00 50.00
AURA SUITE Ra ASECE R0 ADVANCED HIGH . .
307110 AVAIL I 50 I 50.00 00.00 Mam 00 Howe Rd 3000 30.00
307124 AURA SUITE R0 IPAD 1E 350 00.00 00.00 Main 50 Howe Rd 50.00 00.00
307116 guf?g?mi R8 ?5395 RB ADVANCED SEWCES 3 50 00.00 00.00 Maln 00 Home Rd 00.00 00.00
007120 AURA SUITE R0 EOUINDX MOBILE 7E 350 5000 00.00 11:40 00 Home Rd 50.00 50.00
307127 AURA SUITE R0 50500 SINGLE MODE IE 350 50.00 0000 Main 00 Rowe Rd 5000 50.00
307120 AURA SUITE R0 055 IE LIOCU 050 50.00 50.00 M4111 00 Howe Rd 3000 50.00
307120 AURA SUITE R0 VIDEO IE 350 S000 5000 Main 00 Howe Rd 30.00 30.00
307133 AURA SUITE R0 FOR WES IE 350 50.00 00.00 mm 09 Howe Rd 3000 30.00
307132 gum-133$ Ra FOR 350 $0.00 3000 Main 00 Home Rd $0.00 50.00
I .
307131 ?g?usu'm RB ?5 350 50.00 5000 Main 00 Howe R0 5000 50.00
307125 AURA SUITE RS EQUINOX WIN 1E '2 050 50.00 5000 M311 00 Howe R0 0000 50.00
307130 AURA SUITE R0 EQUINOX MAC IE 350 $0.00 00.00 Maln 00 Hows Rd 00.00 50.00
AVAYA PARTS TOTAL 513075 00
.FREIGHT Freight (Auto) 1 372.23 572.23 M010 1 572.23 372.23
Xmedius 1 Speech 00500100 (AER and TTS) License 1
1020-0010000 [add add?ional pom: up lo 3134 Speech resources, 0 01,200.00 57.00000 $1,024.00 004144.00
includes 7 TTS language)
1028-0401300 Xmedius Avaya Communication Manager SIP 1 $1,000.00 $900.00 $800.00
Page 4' 0f5

50:52.1 Order #191430?7? I 14007777? DD 0370.001? 08. 201.9

{Includes SIP 1mnk1DrCW5M, and SJF station for I
SM integratian) i

1028-0400000 Xmedius SIP Porl (All SIP iniegrations) - Per Fort

 

 

12 $195.0m $2,340.00 1 3155110 $1372.00
7 1

OTHER PARTS TOTAL


$4191 Oder #191430jbr Summit DD Camber 03, 2019 Page 54/5

SUMMIT COUNTY DD BOARD
COMPARATIVE SUMMARY OF REVENUE, EXPENDITURES AND UNI) BALANCE
FOR THE TEN MONTHS ENDED OCTOBER '31, 2019 AND 2018

1073172019 1 1073172010 
21119 2019 YTD 01. 2010 2013 YTD 5 VII.) 11.
ANNUAL YTD BUDGET BUDGET ANNUAL YTD BUDGET BUDGET
BUDGET REMAINING REMAINING BUDGET ACTUAL REMAINING REMAINING

OPERATING REVENUE
PROPERTY TAXES 51.941.268 49.226.192 2.715.076 5.2% 51.456.835 5'1 51.884.883 (428.048) 08%

REIMBURSEMENTS 13.462.254 8.052.694 5.409.560 40.2% 12.301.000 10.475.866 1.825.134 .1 4.8%
GRANTS 1.523.329 1.1 14.799 408.530 26.8% 1.250.000 1.123.786 126.214 10.1%
CONTRACT SERVICES 120.000 29.479 90.521 75.4% 450.000 65.841 384.159 85.4%
REFUNDS - 29.442 (29.442) 0.0% 24.679 (24.679) 0.0%
OTHER RECEIPTS 96.000 91.823 4.177 4.4% 86.000 189.756 (103.756) - I 20.6%
TOTAL REVENUE 67,142,851 5 58,544,429 3 8,598,422 12-8% 3 65,543,835 63,764.81 1 5 1,779,024 2.7%

OPERATING EXPENDITURES
SALARIES 16,409,804 12.777720 8 3.632.084 22.1% 5 19.083.932 14.502366 .11 4.581.566 24.0%

EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 9.278.922 6.751.993 2.526.929 27.2% 8.611.271 5,789,498 2.82 I .773 32. 8%

SUPPLIES 431.423 270.708 160.715 3 7.3% 708,020 335 173 372.847 52.7%
TRAVEL AND TRAINING 297.700 254.462 43.238 14.5% 315.350 202.904 112.446 35.7%
DIRECT CONTRACT SERVICES 9.565.568 7.199.029 2.366.539 24.7% 2 9,301,833 7.996.479 1.305.354
INDIRECT CONTRACT SERVICES 1.870.000 1,291.01 1 578.989 31.0% 3 2.198.530 1.227.444 971.086

14.0%

44.2%
MEDICAID COSTS 110.390.1100 28.03 6.558 2.3 53.442 7. 7% .1 28.410.000 28504.3 62 (94.362) 
UTILITIES 565.175 368.621 196.554 34.8% 642.925 408.601 234.324 36.4%
RENTALS 8.000 7.534 466 5.8% 23.600 21.431 2.169 9.2%
ADVERTISING 145.000 110.394 34.606 23.9% 132.000 77.328 5 4,672 41.4%
OTHER EXPENSES 31 1.81 7 283.028 28.789 9.2% 335.250 296.316 38.934 1 1 6%

EQUIPMENT 304.000 161.500 142.500 46.9% 342.000 1.99.876 142.124 41.6%

REAL PROPERTY INIPROVEMENTS 300,000 31,781 268.219 89.4% 350.000 26.419 323.581 92.5%

TOTAL EXPENDITURES 5 69,877,409 5 57,544,339 12,333,070 17.6% 70,454,711 59,588,197 5 10,866,514 15.4%
NET REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES 3 (2,734,558) ?3 1,000,090 (4,910,876) 3 4,176,614

BUDGET ACTUAL

BEGINNING FUND BALANCE 3 50.720253 3 50720263
PLUS: REVENUE 67.141351 511.544.7129
LESS: EXPENDITURES (69,877,409) 157.544.3391
ENDING FUND BALANCE 47.931705 0 51.720353 Recommended for approval by the

November Finance Facilities Committee.

?112/2019 10:14 AM

Attachment #11

SUMMIT COUNTY DD BOA RD
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT
FOR THE MONTH ENDED OCTOBER 311 2019
(Rounded)

An evenlyr distributed budget for a one month period 8.3%
Evenly distributed budget remaining for two mo 16.7%

Revenue:

 

TANF Summer Youth Employment Program reimbursement. 131.400

 

2 Direct Service Contracts: Incremental funding of the Famin Engagement Program for individuals enrolled in the program. 5 150-000
Remaining balances of contracts with providers who participated in the TANF Summer Youth Program. 331300

Indirect Service Contracts: Building appraisal and architect fees for the future facilities project. 14.5 00

Medicaid Costs: Payments to DODD for the following costs:
Quarterly waiver match. 6.142.500
Quarterly waiver administration fee. 382-000

Prior Months

 

Revenue:

 

Property Taxes: The County's Executive of?ce increased the Property Tax budget to re?ect a revised tax collection estimate. 474.400

Reimbursements: Beginning with the FY 2020 state bi-annual budget. DODD reallocated $2.3m of the $2.6m state subsidy to offset waiver
match expense which reduces revenue and expenses but results in no net effect to the bottom line. The FSS portion will
remain as an annual reimbursement and will be included in revenue.

The total cost report audit settlement for FY 2015 was 34.324252 of which $2,082.755 was for the MAC program and
TCM. Because much of settlement was unbudgeted revenue for 2019. the remaining balance of $2.74l.498 for day
program services was deposited into the Building Improvement Fund to be used for future facility renovations.

Ex enditures:

Employee Bene?ts: One-time payment ofa reserve requirement to enter into the Stark County Schools bene?ts consortium and to receive an
immediate benefit of premium holidays. 1.584.100

 

Other Expenses: Ohio Association of County Boards (OACB) 2019 annual dues. 91700

Payment to Wichert Insurance Company for the following insurance costs:
Cyber insurance with National Insurance. 10-100
Director and officers liability insurance with Selective Insurance Company. 32,100
Property 8: casualty. business automobile and umbrella coverage with Selective Insurance Company. 66.300

Annual count}: chargeback for building insurance. 31.000

Attachment #12

summit DD

MINUTES combined work session and regular meeting
Thursday, October 24, 2019

Page 1 of 9

Summit County Developmental Disabilities Board

Minus?

Thursday, October 24,2019
5:30 p. m.

 

The combined work session and regular meeting of the Summit County
Developmental Disabilities Board was held on Thursday, October 24, 2019 at the Summit DD
administrative of?ces located at 89 East Howe Road, Tallmadge, Ohio 44278. The work
session convened at 5:45 pm.

Board Members Present Board Member Excused
Meghan Wilkinson, Board President Dave Dohnal

Denise Ricks, Board Vice President

Allyson V. Lee, Board Secretary

Randy Briggs
Tom Quade
Tami Gaugler
ALSO PRESENT
John J. Trunk, Superintendent Billie Jo David, Director of
Lisa Kamlowsky, Assistant Superintendent Communications Quality
Russ DuPlain, Director of IT and Holly Brugh, Director of SSA Children?s
Facilities Services
Danyelle Conner, Director of HR Drew Williams, Director of Community
Mira Pozna, Director of Fiscal Supports Development
Maggi Albright, Recording SeCretary and others

I. SUMMIT COUNTY CONTRACT

The contract with the Summit County Sheriffs of?ce provides an assigned deputy and
vehicle to be responsible to patrol inside and outside Summit DD facilities and parking
areas as well as take initial criminal noti?cations and complete initial police reports for
major unusual incidents (MUI) of a criminal nature. The contract also provides a
detective to investigate criminal cases, including conducting relevant interviews,
searching for suspects, gathering evidence, obtaining warrants, courtroom testimony
and other duties based on case-speci?c demands. Additionally, the detective
coordinates with the Summit County Prosecutor?s of?ce and other law enforcement
jurisdictions as needed to educate the community regarding criminal cases involving
individuals with developmental disabilities. In 2019 there have been 33 arrests; 20
misdemeanor and 13 felony. The contract includes $4,000 for security at events that
external entities hold at Summit DD buildings.

Page 2 of 9

summit DD

MINUTES combined work session and regular meeting
Thursday, October 24, 2019

II.



WORK SESSION (continued)

SUMMIT COUNTY CONTRACT (continued)

The request is to renew the contract with the Summit County Sheriff?s of?ce for the
period January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020 in an amount not to exceed
$246,888.01. This amount represents an increase of $7,229 over the 2019 contract to
cover the cost of salary increases as well as incidental costs for the use of a vehicle.
Funds are available in the budget and the Summit County Sheriff's contract has been
recommended for approval by the October Finance Facilities and Services 
Supports Committees.

ALTURA CONTRACTS

Summit phone system was originally purchased about eight years ago and has
not been upgraded. The request is to enter into contracts with Altura, the vendor that
supports the existing phone system, to con?gure and install a new phone system and
to provide updated licenses and maintenance. Upgrades to the phone system would
allow staff to work remotely yet still use their work phone number via a computer or
cell phone, enable ?twinning? to seamlessly switch calls between a physical desk
phone, cell phone and/or computer, leverage more modern technology for call routing
and handling, stage Summit DD to be able to move to different buildings without loss
of phone system functionality, improve disaster recovery and allow the existing phone
system to be used with the new upgraded system resulting in $100,000 savings versus
purchasing an entire new system. Total costs would not exceed $105,502. Mr. Briggs
asked how this California-based vendor was selected. Mr. DuPlain replied this
company provides the existing phone system and they are being recommended so
that it is more cost effective for the upgrade. Other vendors were researched but that
would require purchasing new licenses and equipment. Funds are available in the
budget and the Altura contracts have been recommended for approval by the October
Finance Facilities Committees.

BROKERAGE AGREEMENT FOR SALE OF BATH CENTER

In 1980, Summit DD acquired and paid for the construction of the former training and
work facility located at 340 North Cleveland-Massillon Road, Akron. The property is
titled in the name of Summit County. Since vacating the facility in 2010, Summit DD
and the County have been unsuccessful in identifying a use or purchaser for the
property and it remains vacant. The Summit County Executive has the authority to
enter into a professional service agreement with a licensed real estate agent to assist
in marketing and selling the property. The request is for the Board to pass a
resolution requesting the County Executive to begin this process. When a buyer is
found, Summit DD will have ?nal input relative to an acceptable sale price. The
County has agreed that proceeds from the sale will be returned to the Board for use in
other capital projects.

Page 3 of 9

summit DD

MINUTES combined work session and regular meeting
Thursday, October 24, 2019



IV.

WORK SESSION (continued)

BROKERAGE AGREEMENT FOR SALE OF BATH CENTER (continued)

Mr. Trunk noted there have been multiple conversations and e-mail exchanges with a
variety of staff at the Executive?s of?ce relative to the proceeds from the sale being
credited to the Board and he feels con?dent that the Executive will honor this
commitment. Ms. Kamlowsky added that she has been working with staff in the
Executive?s of?ce relative to the wording of the Board resolution so that it is ready to
be presented to County Council. After County Council approves, it will be in County
ordinance. The request to enter into a brokerage agreement for the sale of the Bath
Center has been recommended for approval by the October Finance and Facilities and
Services Supports Committees.

AKRON HOSPITAL AMENDMENT

The Ohio Department of Developmental Disabilities (DODD) will allocate an additional
$3 million dollars per year for service coordination, evaluations and assessments to
counties most affected by the increase in Early Intervention (EI) referrals and the
number of children served in E1. An increase for E1 in the Governor?s budget resulted
in $195,748 in new money for Summit County. Effective July lst, children with a
diagnosis of Neonatal Alcohol (NAS) or elevated lead blood levels became
automatically eligible for E1 services. These new eligibility categories have put Ohio at
the forefront nationally of providing EI services to these two populations. The request
is to increase the current contract with Akron Children?s Hospital (ACH) for the total
contract amount not to exceed $1,005,810. This will allow ACH additional funds of
$66,641 to hire another service coordinator and the remaining $129,107 will be
credited to Summit DD to go towards the salary costs for staff who perform
developmental evaluations. Funds for this contract are available in the budget and will
be supported by grant funds. The contract amendment with Akron Children's Hospital
has been recommended for approval by the October Finance Facilities and Services
Supports Committees.

SUMMIT COUNTY FAMILY AND CHILDREN FIRST COUNCIL CONTRACT

The counties of Summit, Trumbull, Columbiana, Portage and Ashtabula were awarded
$179,000 through a collaborative Strong Families Safe Communities grant by the Ohio
Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services to provide high ?delity
wraparound services to youth with intensive needs. Summit DD is the applicant of the
grant and would like to subcontract with the Summit County Family and Children First
Council (FCFC) in the amount of $65,000 for a service coordinator to provide these
services. The grant was funded for two years at $179,000] year and the 2020 grant
period is July 1, 2019 through June 30, 2020. Through the grant, each county
provides high ?delity wraparound, respite and peer support services to children and
youth ages birth through 25 who have intensive needs relating to intellectual/
developmental disabilities and/or behavioral health needs.

. summ1t DD

MINUTES combined work session and regular meeting

Thursday, October 24, 2019
WORK SESSIO (continued)

V. SUMMIT COUNTY FAMILY AND CHILDREN FIRST COUNCIL CONTRACT (continued)

Page 4 of 9

In Summit County, this service will be provided by a service coordinator hired by
FCFC, with the Summit County Combined General Health District as the administrative
agent. In addition, this grant will pay for rent and utilities at the crisis home for
children located in Summit County, as well as providing wraparound training to staff in
all ?ve counties. Funds are available in the budget and will be supported by grant
funds. The Summit County FCFC contract has been recommended for approval by the
October Finance Facilities and Services Supports Committees.

VI. SEPTEMBER FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

September ended with a balance of $9,964,621 and a fund balance of $60,684,884.
Revenue for the month included second half property tax settlement of $22,755,000
and quarterly Medicaid Administrative Claims (MAC) reimbursement of $361,000.
Expenditures in September included payment of $54,800 to providers participating in
the TANF Summer Youth Program and $11,100 for waterline evaluations and repairs
at the administrative campus. The September Financial Statements have been
recommended for approval by the October Finance Facilities Committee.

The work session adjourned at 6:05 pm.

Page 5 of 9

summit on

MINUTES combined work session and regular meeting
Thursday, October 24, 2019

BOARD MEETING

The regular meeting of the Summit County Developmental Disabilities Board
convened at 6:05 pm.

I.

II.



BOARD MEMBER CAUCUS

Mrs. Ricks commented that she had a student scheduled for an OEDI and the Summit
DD staff assigned to the case was SSA Nick Calcei. She said the student was very
nervous and that Mr. Calcei made the student feel very comfortable and that he
seemed very comfortable and knowledgeable. She thanked Mr. Calcei for his support.
Mrs. Ricks stated this is just one of many experiences that makes her proud to be part
of the Summit DD Board.

PUBLIC COMMENT

Leslie Frank, a parent and former Summit DD staff, thanked Superintendent Trunk for
speaking at the Cuyahoga Falls Democratic Party meeting last week. She said his
speech was very informative and that people appreciated hearing from him.

Ms. Frank commented on the 75th birthday celebration of Kenny King that was held by
the City of Cuyahoga Falls. It was a festive event with many community members in
attendance. Ms. Frank congratulated Holly Brugh and Drew Williams on their recent
contract extensions. Ms. Frank asked when the next online auction would be held.
Mr. DuPlain replied that it may be a few more months and added that a notice will be
sent to announce the next auction. Ms. Frank mentioned that Probate Court is hosting
an art show on October 28th and encouraged all to attend. Ms. Frank thanked Maggi
Albright for her efforts with the recent Summit DD apparel sale.

Dawn Petrick, a Summit DD staff, said she recently attended the three-day statewide
Synergy conference. There were 28 representatives from Summit County in
attendance. She thanked Holly Brugh and Drew Williams for facilitating participation.
She noted that an individual from Summit County is now on the PAR Board and she is
a wonderful addition, offering valuable and unique perspective.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
A. SEPTEMER 26, 2019 (combined work session and regular meeting)

RESOLUTION
No.19-10-01

Mr. Briggs moved that the Board approve the minutes of the September 26.
2019 combined work session and regular meeting, as presented in attachment

The motion, seconded by Mr. Quade, was unanimously approved.

Page 6 of 9


. ,1 summ1t DD
MINUTES combined work session and regular meeting

Thursday, October 24, 2019
BOARD MEETING (continued)

IV. BOARD ACTION ITEMS
A. FINANCE FACILITIES COMMITTEE
1. BROKERAGE AGREEMENT FOR SALE OF BATH CENTER

RESOLUTION
No.19-10-02

Mr. uade moved that whereas the Summit Coun Develo mental

Disabilities Board paid for and constructed a facility at 340 North
Cleveland-Massillon Road Bath Ohio 44333 at which location

individuals with developmental disabilities Dreviouslv received services:
and

Whereas the Summit County Developmental Disabilities Board has
determined that said propemg is no longer necessaLy for its operations;

Ed

Whereas the Coung of Summit holds title to said real estate located at
340 North Cleveland-Massillon Road Bath Ohio 44333'

 

 

Now therefore be it resolved that the Summit Countv Developmental
Disabilities Board requests that the Countv Executive enter into a
professional service contract with a real estate broker to assist in selling
the propertv located at 340 North CIeveland-Massillon Road. Bath. Ohio
44333 at a sales price that is acceptable to both the Countv of Summit
and the Summit Counpr Developmental Disabilities Board, as agreed to
bv the Superintendent, and that all sales proceeds are returned to
Summit Countv Developmental Disabilities Board?s Permanent
Improvement Fund. The motion. seconded bv Mrs. Ricks, was
unanimouslv approved.

2. AKRON HOSPITAL AMENDMENT

RESOLUTION


Mrs. Lee moved that the Board approve an increase of Sim Six
Thousand Six Hundred Fo?y One Dollars to the one-year
contract with Akron Children?s Hospital for Part Early Intervention
Service Coordination, for the total contract amount not to exceed Eight
Hundred Fi One Thousand Three Hundred Ei ht Dollars
for the period July 1, 2019 through June 30, 2020, as
presented in attachment and that the Superintendent be authorized
to sign said contract amendment. The motion, seconded by Mrs.

Gauqler. was unanimouslv approved.

Page 7 of 9

57 .
(u summlt DD

MINUTES combined work session and regular meeting
Thursday, October 24, 2019

BOARD MEETING (continued)

IV. BOARD ACTION ITEMS (continued)

A.

FINANCE FACILITIES COMMITTEE (continued)
3. SUMMIT COUNTY FAMILY AND CHILDREN FIRST COUNCIL CONTACT

RESOLUTION
No.19-10-04

Mrs. Ricks moved that the Board approve a contract with Summit County
Family and Children First Council to provide high ?delity wraparound
services to youth, for the period July 1, 2019 through June 20, 2020, in
an amount not to exceed Si Five Thousand Dollars 65 000.00 as
presented in attachment and that the Superintendent be authorized

to sign said contract. The motion, seconded by Mrs. Gaugler, was
unanimouslv approved.

4. SEPTEMBER FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

RESOLUTION
No.19-10-05

Mrs. Gaugler moved that the Board approve September Financial
Statements, as presented in attachment The motion, seconded by
Mr. Briggs, was unanimously approved.

V. REPORT

A.

CENSUS

The Superintendent presented the September Census and explained that a new
format is being used and it is still evolving. He noted Summit DD is the fourth
largest county in the state. Mr. Trunk also pointed out there has been 72.7%
growth in the number of children age 3-5 being supported, which has not
happened by accident; this growth represents the Board's commitment to
support kids beyond early intervention. There has also been an increase in the
number of kids graduating who will be in need of employment, clay and
possibly residential services. The new format shows waivers by category and
re?ects an increase of about 100 waivers since 2017.

Page 8 of 9

.
\i summIt DD
MINUTES combined work session and regular meeting

Thursday, October 24, 2019
BOARD ETI NG (continued)

V. REPORT (continued)

B. MISCELLANEOUS

Summit DD will be collaborating with the Summit County Public Health
Department around a $1 million-dollar grant that was awarded to evaluate and
design a best practice model for supporting individuals living with Alzheimer?s
disease and related dementias, including those with intellectual and
developmental disabilities. It is a three?year grant and only thirteen of these
grants were awarded across the country.

Mr. Trunk advised that he will be meeting with the Mayor of Barberton next
week to continue discussions around renovating and moving staff to the
Barberton Center. He will also be meeting with the Mayor of Cuyahoga Falls in
early November.

The Superintendent announced that Judge Stormer has reappointed Dave
Dohnal to another four-year term on the Board commencing in January 2020.

Mr. Trunk thanked Randy Briggs for facilitating a meeting with Mayor Horrigan
to discuss employment opportunities for individuals with disabilities in the City
of Akron.

Drew Williams and his staff will be hosting an employment event this Saturday
at the Cuyahoga Falls Sheraton to kick-off the National Disability Employment
Awareness campaign. Director Davis, along with more than 100 participants,
are expected to attend.

The annual All Agency In-service will be held on Monday, November 
There will be activities at the main campus in the morning and then staff will
gather at Silver Lake Country Club in the afternoon for lunch and service
awards. The keynotespeaker will be Meghan Wilkinson. Mr. Trunk invited the
Board Members to attend and asked them to RSVP to Maggi Albright.

The annual OACB Conference is being held December 4-6 at the Hilton 
Easton in Columbus. Board Members who would like to attend should contact
Maggi Albright.

Mr. Trunk mentioned that a tentative agreement has been reached on the Ball
v. DeWine lawsuit and some details include a commitment by DODD to provide
more state-funded waivers for people to leave congregate settings and live in
the community, along with expanding options for residential counseling. The
spirit of the agreement is to make sure individuals leaving their home or who
need residential placement are aware of the array of services available.

Page 9 of 9

a .
(g sumrmt DD

MINUTES combined work session and regular meeting
Thursday, October 24, 2019

VI.

BOARD ETI (continued)

COMMENTS

Ms. Wilkinson said she has been thinking about all the ways in which each of us have
impact individually and collectively. She noted that when she and others addressed
Cuyahoga Falls City Council, the ?nancial impact of Summit DD moving staff to that
community was discussed; she also noted that the Agency has a large economic
impact in the County. Ms. Wilkinson said that she would like to be able to tell Summit
story of impact more ef?ciently and she thinks it is important to be able to cite
data and statistics because it is not just about the money and the ?nancial impact, it is
also about the lives of people the Board supports in our community. Ms. Wilkinson
noted Mrs. Ricks' comments tonight on the impact that SSA Nick Calcei had on her and
one of her students, along with the impact that Kenny King has had on his community.
Social impacts are so important as well. Everyone has the ability to make an impact.

Ms. Wilkinson publicly thanked Russ Balthis, Law Director for the City of Cuyahoga
Falls, for arranging a private tour of one of the ?re stations. It was a great experience
for her sons, one of whom wants to be a ?reman, and she appreciates that her sons

had this opportunity.

There being no further business, the Board Meeting adjourned at 6:33 pm.

 

Allyson V. Lee, Secretary

