ALCOHOL, DRUG ADDICTION & MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES BOARD OF CUYAHOGA COUNTY
JOINT FAITH-BASED OUTREACH AND PLANNING & OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE MINUTES
SEPTEMBER 11, 2019
Committee Members: Gregory X. Boehm, M.D., Elsie Caraballo, J. Robert Fowler, Ph.D., Rev. Benjamin F.
Gohlstin, Sr., Gwendolyn Howard, LSW, MSSA, Eugenia Kirkland, LSW, MSSA, CDCA, Katie Kern-Pilch, MA, ATRBC, Mary M. Step, Ph.D., Rev. Brenda Ware-Abrams, Mary R. Warr, M.Ed.
Absent: Reginald C. Blue, Ph.D., Rev. Max Rodas, MA
Board Staff Present: Maggie Tolbert, Assistant Chief Clinical Officer, Carole Ballard, Christina Bohuslawsky-Brown,
Curtis Couch, Tami Fischer, Cheryl Fratalonie, Felicia Harrison, Bill Hebble, Linda Lamp, Starlette Sizemore-Rice,
Larry Smith, Jr., Thomas Williams, Beth Zietlow-DeJesus
1. CALL TO ORDER
Rev. Benjamin Gohlstin, Committee Vice Chair, called the meeting to order at 4:00 p.m. Ms. Howard read aloud the
committee’s mission statement, “To recognize and advocate spirituality in the recovery process; to connect the spiritual
perspective with other interventions and best practices; and to promote the concept that treatment works and people
recover.”
Rev. Gohlstin noted that a special Faith-based Outreach Committee meeting was scheduled to ensure all Faith-based
providers are informed of relevant information regarding the Board’s CY2020 funding application process; which will
determine what programs and/or services will be funded by the Board in CY2020.
2. APPROVAL OF MINUTES: FAITH-BASED OUTREACH COMMITTEE
The Faith-Based Outreach Committee minutes of June 5, 2019 were approved as submitted.
3. 2019 FAITH-BASED OUTREACH INITIATIVES: PROGRESS REPORT
Starlette Sizemore-Rice, Director of Special Projects, highlighted accomplishments of each of the nine faith-based
outreach providers illustrated in the written Faith-based Outreach Programs Performance Outcomes Progress Report
dated September 11, 2019. The report is attached to the original minutes stored in the Executive Unit.
Ms. Sizemore-Rice stated that the faith-based programming for children K-12th grade is measured through the
Devereux Student Strengths Assessment (DESSA) instrument. The DESSA web-based system is designed to help
school and after-school program staff promote the healthy social-emotional development of all children. The DESSA
is a thorough assessment of the following social-emotional competencies: self-awareness; social-awareness; selfmanagement; relationship skills; goal directed behavior; personal responsibility; decision making skills; and optimistic
thinking, which translates to a score and categorized through a numerical value. 60 and above indicate social and
emotional “Strengths” showing children doing well; 40-59 indicate “Typical” positive behaviors for children; and 40 and
below indicate “Need for Instruction” to further develop social and emotional skills. The report identifies the DESSA K8th completed pre/post submissions for the five agencies to date.
The faith-based program for adults demonstrates resiliency measured as Always (A), Sometimes (S), or Not Yet (N)
through the Devereux Adult Resilience Survey (DARS) instrument that promotes self-awareness regarding personal
strengths to enhance creativity and the ability to set limits to cope with adversity and stress measured through the
following areas: Will gain knowledge to develop healthy relationships; Will learn skills to increase self-worth to enhance
internal beliefs and values; Will learn strategies to develop/enhance self-motivation to increase independence; and Will
learn to self-regulate and control without the use of substance and negative influences. The report identified the four
agencies that have submitted their DARS data to date; Trinity Outreach Ministries, Inner Healing Ministries,
OhioGuidestone and Coalition for a Better Life.
[Dr. G. Boehm arrived.]
Page 1 of 7

 Joint Faith-based Outreach and Planning and Oversight Committee Minutes

September 11, 2019

Mental Health First Aid is designed to teach individuals how to spot the signs and symptoms of mental illness and
provide help on a first aid basis. Individuals who are participating in a Mental Health First Aid training provided by a
Faith-Based Program provider is expected to successfully complete the course evaluation/quiz and score at least 60%
based on the following topics: Helpful Things to Say; Myths and Facts-Suicide and Self-Injury; Suicidal Thoughts and
Behaviors; Panic Attacks; Traumatic Events; Auditory Hallucinations; Psychosis; and Substance Use Disorders
Committee members directed questions to Ms. Sizemore. Discussion continued regarding the 2019 Faith-based
Outreach Initiatives Performance Outcomes report presented. In conclusion, Ms. Sizemore noted that the Faith-based
Outreach Initiatives are making a difference in the lives of those individuals being served; and show movement and
growth.
Ms. Warr referenced the gender composition that was highlighted in the Performance Outcomes report. She noted
that she was pleased to see that more males are being served by these initiatives and commended the faith-based
providers that have reached out to increase this population. Ms. Warr recommended that the faith-based organizations
provide narrative summaries of their initiatives; based on pre/post-test scores to identify growth and
concerns/challenges they have encountered through the provision of these services.
Motion to recommend faith-based organizations provide a brief narrative summary of their initiatives; based
on pre/post-test scores to identify growth and concerns/challenges they have encountered through the
provision of these services to the Faith-based Outreach Committee. MOTION: M. Warr / SECOND: E. Kirkland /
AYES: G. Boehm, E. Caraballo, R. Fowler, B. Gohlstin, G. Howard, E. Kirkland, K. Kern-Pilch, M. Step, B. WareAbrams, M. Warr / NAYS: None ABSTAIN: None / Motion passed.
4. PRESENTATION: COALITION FOR A BETTER LIFE DBA PEACE IN THE HOOD
Mr. Amir El Hajj Khalid A. Samad, Co-founder and Chief Executive Officer, Brother Afi-Nur Nkrumah, Mr. Raj Roberson,
and Ms. Ruth Standiford, Coalition For A Better Life DBA Peace In The Hood, provided a presentation regarding Project
Empowerment Holistic Solutions for Holistic Problems. Recognizing that families are unique, Peace In The Hood
provides individualized service plans for families and youth. Referrals come from the Cleveland Metropolitan School
District, Juvenile Court, Court of Common Pleas, Mosques, Churches, and other faith based institutions, families, the
community, and collaborating agencies.
Project Community Empowerment Holistic Solutions for Holistic Problems is a grassroots Saturday/Summer program
working with youth and high risk youth that have had contact with the Juvenile Justice system and their families; which
takes a human centered and spiritual approach in recovery, healing and providing program services.
Ms. Kirkland shared that she has been acquainted with this program in the community for over twenty years and
commended their efforts with the population served. Ms. Howard concurred.
5. UPDATE: FAITH-BASED OUTREACH INITIATIVES DOCUMENTARY
Dr. Deborah Watson-Daniels, Program Director, Trinity Outreach Ministries-Another Chance of Ohio updated
committee members regarding the progress on the documentary: Faith Works! The goal is to interview and record
provider staff as well as to visit their programs on-site. The documentary will aim to share the impact of the various
programs and services. Dr. Watson-Daniels noted the following list of dates, participants and settings of filming:
 June 6, 2019 - Rev. Renee Jacobs and Rev. Mike Kraynack, OhioGuidestone, The Underground 7209
Woodland
 June 7, 2019 - Ms. Marsha Blanks, National Alliance for the Mentally Ill Greater Cleveland (NAMIGC), The
Underground
 June 25, 2019 - Ms. Tova Herskovic, NAALEH, on location at NAALEH
 June 13 and July 21, 2019 - Rev. McDaniel, Life Recovery Ministries, The Underground and on location
at The Recovery Church
 July 31, 2019 - Mr. Scott Osiecki, Chief Executive Officer; Ms. Linda Torbert, Director of Clients Rights;
Ms. Beth Zietlow-DeJesus, Director of External Affairs; Ms. Starlette Sizemore Rice; and Rev. Benjamin
Page 2 of 7

 Joint Faith-based Outreach and Planning and Oversight Committee Minutes
September 11, 2019
Gohlstin, “Rabbi”, Board Chair, The Alcohol, Drug Addiction and Mental Health Services (ADAMHS) Board
of Cuyahoga County, on location at the ADAMHS Board’s office
 August 1, 2019 - Mr. Khalid A. Samad, Raj Khjadijah Muhammed and Youth Participants, Peace In The
Hood, on location in Mount Pleasant.
 August 14, 2019 - Mr. Bob Piovarchy, Far West Center, The Underground and Sanctuary
 August 14, 2019 – Rev. Dr. Benjamin Franklin and Ms. Nicole N. Cobb, The Stop Program at Inner Healing
Ministries, on location at Inner Healing Ministries
 August 11 and 29, 2019 – Dr. Watson, Pastor Dr. Andrew Clark, First Lady Michele Clark and some
Participants, The FAITH Program of Trinity Outreach Ministries, The Underground and on locations.
Dr. Watson-Daniels noted that the film is now in post-production. Filming and editing is being completed by Minister
Jason Clark and a sneak preview will be ready by October 15, 2019. The projected length of this documentary will be
a 90 minute feature length film. A date will be scheduled in early November to hold a red carpet Premier of the film at
the Underground, hosted by Pastor Andrew Clark. The Premier, marketing and distribution and showcase will be
handled by the ADAMHS Board of Cuyahoga County.
Rev. Gohlstin shared that he will be hosting/moderating a new television show on Channel 19 and will be requesting
faith based providers’ participation.
6. CY2020 CONTRACT REVIEW PROCESS FOR FAITH-BASED OUTREACH INITIATIVES
Ms. Maggie Tolbert, Assistant Chief Clinical Officer, reported that the ADAMHS Board of Cuyahoga County is in the
process of determining the programs and services it plans on purchasing from its current providers for CY2020. The
ADAMHS Board is not accepting applications for new providers, programs or services at the present. If a provider
agency wishes to continue contracting with the ADAMHS Board in CY2020 to provide the same services they provided
in CY2019, they must complete the CY2020 Funding Request Application. The completed application(s) must be
returned to the ADAMHS Board, via e-mail only, no later than 5:00 p.m. on Wednesday, September 18, 2019.
Rev. Gohlstin noted that Ms. Sizemore is available to provide technical assistance to faith-based providers that are
encountering challenges with meeting outcomes.
There being no audience comment or further business, the Faith-based Outreach portion of the meeting was
adjourned at 4:48 p.m.
[Rev. B. Gohlstin, Sr., G. Howard, Rev. B. Ware-Abrams, and M. Warr left the meeting.]
7. CALL TO ORDER
Ms. Kirkland, Planning & Oversight Committee Chair, called the meeting to order at 4:55 p.m.
8. APPROVAL OF MINUTES: PLANNING & OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE
The Planning & Oversight Committee minutes of July 17, 2019 were approved as submitted.
9. OUTCOME REPORT FROM BEHAVIORAL HEALTH WELLNESS FAIR
Mr. Bill Hebble, Clients Rights Officer II, reported on the 2019 Client Wellness Fair, which was hosted at the Cleveland
Airport Marriott on July 22, 2019. Approximately 130 clients participated in the Fair. This number was based on the
number of tickets issued to clients and the number of evaluations completed. Approximately 65 ADAMHS Board staff,
Board members, and vendors were in attendance. The ADAMHS Board promoted the event through e-mail blasts to
provider agencies and group homes, flyer mailings sent to client’s home, as well as public announcements at monthly
Client Lunch and Learn sessions and ADAMHS Board meetings. Several provider agencies and group homes brought
groups of clients to the event.
Page 3 of 7

 Joint Faith-based Outreach and Planning and Oversight Committee Minutes
September 11, 2019
The Wellness Fair focused on all aspects of wellness in a variety of ways. Some of the activities offered included the
following:
 Resource Tables providing a wide variety of beneficial information about community services;
 Client Workshops including stress management, nutrition and home wellness;
 Medical Screenings including biometrics, podiatry, dental and vision; and
 Interactive Sessions including Reiki, Tai Chi, Yoga, and Healthy Cooking demonstrations.
Feedback from the surveys were overwhelmingly positive. The clients noted that the activities that they enjoyed the
most were as follows: Tai Chi; Reiki; Healthy Cooking demonstrations; Yoga; and the diversity of screenings, activities
and resource tables. Clients noted that the boxed lunches were the least liked about the Wellness Fair. Other thoughts
about the Wellness Fair included a great appreciation for hosting the Fair and their overall enjoyment of the Fair;
however the clients noted that they would like the event to be longer, more sessions and to become an annual event.
The successes of the Wellness Fair included the personal-pace schedule. The agenda of the Wellness Fair was shared
with all participants at registration. Clients could attend specific sessions and have screenings performed throughout
the day at their own pace. Clients could also choose when to break for lunch. The challenges of the Wellness Fair
included a more streamlined registration process and the venue layout.
Mr. Hebble noted that ADAMHS Board staff have retained and documented the contact information of vendors whom
participated in this year’s Wellness Fair. Many clients indicated that this event would be ideal as an annual summer
client event. He stated that on behalf of the ADAMHS Board, a very large thank you to everyone for their assistance
and support to make this event the great success it was. The PowerPoint presentation is attached to the original
minutes stored in the Executive Unit.
Committee members directed questions to Mr. Hebble regarding Adult Care Facility (ACF) involvement and
transportation concerns. Ms. Kern-Pilch complimented the committee on the variety of vendors and available resources
for this event.
10. MENTAL HEALTH JAIL LIAISON PROGRAM: 6-MONTH FOLLOW UP REPORT
Mr. Larry Smith, Jr., Director of Programs, reported on the Mental Health Jail Liaison Program. He stated that the
mission of this program is to provide linkage and continuity of mental health services for inmates in the jail setting
diagnosed with a Severe Mental Illness. The purpose of the program is to identify individuals who are mentally ill as
soon as possible and engage them in mental health treatment and community support services. This project is a
collaboration between the community mental health agency, the Cuyahoga County Jail, and the Cuyahoga Court of
Common Pleas.
The Mental Health Jail Liaison Program consists of one Specialist and four agencies. Ms. Lottie Gray, LISW, the Jail
Liaison Specialist; which is a jointly funded position by the ADAMHS Board and Court of Common Pleas, was created
to provide direction, consistency, oversight and be a spokesperson to court and jail on behalf of the Jail Liaisons. This
position also assists with the identification of Mental Health court eligible clients currently in custody in the county jail;
and is active within the courts.
Four provider agencies; MetroHealth, Murtis Taylor Human Services System, Recovery Resources, and Signature
Health have staff that facilitate this program in a liaison role. These liaisons provide mental health screening,
assessments, and provide treatment intervention recommendations to those clients incarcerated in the Cuyahoga
County Jail. They meet individually with clients, while incarcerated in the County Jail to provide continuity of care and
linkage; perform full diagnostic assessments within the county jail for community linkage to the provider agency (new
and closed clients); and provide written reintegration plans, coordination of care and treatment recommendations to
Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas (CCP), CCP Mental Health Court, Specialist and staff. The PowerPoint
presentation is attached to the original minutes stored in the Executive Unit.
Committee members directed questions to Mr. Smith regarding the initiation of referrals, the assignment of Mental
Health Jail Liaisons and the challenges that arise with providing these services in the jail. Ms. Tolbert noted that a
Page 4 of 7

 Joint Faith-based Outreach and Planning and Oversight Committee Minutes
September 11, 2019
variety of challenges can arise, such as lockdowns, during their efforts to provide mental health screening, assessments
and treatment intervention recommendations.
Ms. Kern-Pilch noted that the artwork on display this month is provided by the Incarcerated Veterans’ Art Program.
11. WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVE: PROGRESS REPORT
Mr. Jeff Johnson, ADAMHS Board Consultant, provided a 60 day status report regarding developing a Strategic Plan
for workforce development and implementation in the area of behavioral health, treatment and recovery for provider
agencies. He noted that the focus of the Strategic Plan project is defined as the capacity of the current and future
behavioral health workforce; while the established goals are to assist provider agencies in strengthening their workforce
and meeting the challenges of the changing behavioral health system by increasing retention of staff, reducing staff
turnover and expanding available workforce.
Mr. Johnson reported that during this 60 day timeframe, he has researched/reviewed workforce development in the
area of behavioral health, treatment and recovery locally and beyond; and met with several ADAMHS Board supported
provider agencies and community stakeholders to discuss their experiences, opinions and recommendations regarding
workforce. The full report covered highlights from discussions, challenges, action steps done or being considered by
providers to respond to staff vacancies, turnover and/or burnout challenges, opinions and recommendations, and
limited options for expanding available workforce. The report is attached to the original minutes stored in the Executive
Unit.
Ms. Kirkland highlighted that the workforce development portion of the Board’s Strategic Plan had been missing for
some time and noted that she is appreciative of Mr. Johnson’s efforts relative to the information provided and contacts
made.
Dr. Step indicated that there is a missing link and/or lack of partnership with providers to prepare students for positions
in the area of behavioral health, treatment and recovery. Ms. Kirkland noted the importance of utilizing internships
and/or residencies to assist with preparing students for success in the behavioral health field. Additionally, Ms. Tami
Fischer, Chief Administrative Officer, referenced one behavioral health provider that created a non-billable mentor
position to assist new employees with adjusting to the expectations of their employment.
12. ADDICTION TREATMENT PROGRAM (ATP)
The ADAMHS Board and Drug Court programs with specialized docket(s) is addressing the need for addiction
treatment to individuals who are offenders within the criminal justice system. The Ohio Department of Mental Health
and Addiction Services (OhioMHAS) has expanded eligibility to any client with a substance use disorder (SUD), not
only with opioid use disorder (OUD) or alcohol use disorders. The client will receive SUD treatment and recovery
support services as necessary and will be enrolled by Drug Court staff; and services will be provided by ADAMHS
Board contracted agencies certified by OhioMHAS. The ADAMHS Board will act as the fiscal agent to draw down
funds in the OhioMHAS grant system and pass the funds to the contract providers for services rendered.
Mr. Smith explained that OhioMHAS provided the ADAMHS Board of Cuyahoga County $325,000.00 for the Addiction
Treatment Program for the period July 1, 2019-June 30, 2020 (SFY 2020). He further noted that OhioMHAS has
approved $778,952.00 in carryover funds into the next fiscal year. In addition to the following list of panel of providers:
 Catholic Charities-Matt Talbot for Men and Women
 Community Assessment and Treatment Services (CATS)
 The MetroHealth System
 Moore Counseling
 The Salvation Army
 Stella Maris
 Cuyahoga County Treatment Alternatives to Street Crime (TASC)
ADAMHS Board staff have requested the addition of Cleveland Treatment Center (CTC), Hitchcock Center for Women,
and Recovery Resources to the panel of providers approved for the Medicated-Assisted Treatment (MAT) program.
Page 5 of 7

 Joint Faith-based Outreach and Planning and Oversight Committee Minutes
September 11, 2019
Motion to recommend approval of the amendment to Resolution 18-05-04 to accept OhioMHAS additional
funding in the amount of $325,000.00 for the period July 1, 2019 through June 30, 2020 (SFY 2020), to accept
$778,952.00 carryover funding from the period July 1, 2018 through June 30, 2019 (SFY 2019), and to add CTC,
Hitchcock Center for Women, and Recovery Resources to the panel of approved providers listed above for the
Addiction Treatment Program to the Finance & Operations Committee. MOTION: M. Step / SECOND: K. KernPilch / AYES: G. Boehm, E. Caraballo, R. Fowler, E. Kirkland, K. Kern-Pilch, M. Step / NAYS: None ABSTAIN: None /
Motion passed.
13. SUSTANCE ABUSE AND MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (SAMHSA): JAIL DIVERSION
GRANT UPDATE
Ms. Carole Ballard, Director of Training and Education, provided a presentation on the Crisis Intervention Team (C.I.T.)
Plus Pilot Project. The pilot project is for adults suffering from a mental health crisis that does not require
hospitalization, but would still benefit from intensive short term mental health services and follow up linkage to a mental
health agency and/or other services. She reported that the location is the Crisis Stabilization Unit, which can be utilized
by CIT Officers in all Districts. This location has two beds that are reserved for Cleveland Division of Police (CDP)
Officers to bring individuals directly to as a diversion from jail and/or emergency hospitalization. Ms. Ballard further
highlighted the admission criteria, coordination of referrals, Challenges for CDP, Challenges for FrontLine Service, and
opportunities.
The C.I.T. Plus Project began in March, 2019. An orientation to this project is provided to CDP Officers during Roll
Calls; all three shifts for First and Second Districts. Ms. Ballard noted that FrontLine Service hired three staff; Peer
Support and Case Manager and to date, there are eight referrals. The PowerPoint presentation is attached to the
original minutes stored in the Executive Unit
[Dr. G. Boehm left the meeting.]
14. REQUEST FOR ISSUANCE OF REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL (RFP) FOR SECURITY SERVICES FOR CY2020
Ms. Fischer reported that Board staff is requesting authorization to issue a Request for Proposal (RFP) for Security
Services for CY2020. The ADAMHS Board of Cuyahoga County currently contracts with Safe Choice LLC for armed
security guard services at the ADAMHS Board’s administrative office as well as Seasons of Hope building. Safe Choice
LLC is paid for services provided on an hourly basis for armed security officers at $17.50 per hour for regular hours
and $26.25 for overtime hours. The duties include, but are not limited to, building opening and closing inspections,
foot patrol of building, visual surveillance, visitor check-in and physical presence in the ADAMHS Board’s entrance
during employee arrival/departure times and evening meetings, responding to emergency situations, completing
incident reports and daily logs, and participation in workplace violence reduction trainings and procedure drills.
The contract with Safe Choice LLC is from January 1, 2019 through December 31, 2019, with the option of a one year
renewal through CY2020. ADAMHS Board staff and Board of Directors would like to consider other security vendors
and to begin the RFP process.
Motion to recommend authorization to issue a RFP for security services for CY2020 to the Full Board. MOTION:
E. Caraballo / SECOND: R. Fowler / AYES: E. Caraballo, R. Fowler, E. Kirkland, K. Kern-Pilch, M. Step / NAYS: None
ABSTAIN: None / Motion passed.
15. APPROVAL OF BROWN CONSULTING FOR THE ANNUAL AOD INDPENDENT PEER REVIEW AS
REQUIRED BY OHIOMHAS FOR THE FEDERAL SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION AND TREATMENT
(SAPT) BLOCK GRANT FUNDS: RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT SERVICES
Mr. Curtis Couch, Chief Technology and Data Analytics Officer, reported that the Ohio Department of Mental Health
and Addiction Services requires that Boards conduct an independent peer review annually on Alcohol and Other Drugs
(AOD) provider agencies that receive Federal Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment (SAPT) Block Grant funds.
Each year a different Level of Care in service is reviewed. This year’s review will focus on AOD Residential Treatment
Services. Provider agencies to be reviewed include: Catholic Charities, Community Assessment and Treatment
Services (CATS), Hispanic UMADAOP, Hitchcock Center for Women, New Directions, ORCA House and Signature
Health.
Page 6 of 7

 Joint Faith-based Outreach and Planning and Oversight Committee Minutes

September 11, 2019

Motion to recommend approval to contract with Brown Consulting, Ltd. up to $50,000.00 for an annual Alcohol
and Other Drug (AOD) independent peer review as required by OhioMHAS for the Federal Substance Abuse
Prevention and Treatment (SAPT) Block Grant Funds: Residential Treatment Services to the Finance &
Operations Committee. MOTION: K. Kern-Pilch / SECOND: M. Step / AYES: E. Caraballo, R. Fowler, E. Kirkland,
K. Kern-Pilch, M. Step / NAYS: None ABSTAIN: None / Motion passed.
16. REQUEST FOR ISSUANCE OF RFP FOR NEEDS ASSESSMENT
Mr. Couch stated the ADAMHS Board routinely conducts a system Needs Assessment/Analysis to ensure that
Cuyahoga County’s Public Behavioral Health and Recovery System continues to adapt to an environment of high
service demands and that constrained resources are allocated appropriately. The Needs Assessment/Analysis will
assist the ADAMHS Board in identifying areas of greatest need for client services for planning, funding, evaluating and
advocacy purposes. OhioMHAS, as well as general evaluation standards, suggest that local Boards conduct a
thorough Needs Assessment/Analysis approximately every five years. The ADAMHS Board’s last Community Needs
Assessment/Analysis was completed in 2016. In preparation for the development of the Board’s 2021-2015 Strategic
Plan, Executive staff and Board members are requesting that the Needs Assessment/Analysis be completed by April
30, 2020.
Motion to recommend authorization to issue a Request for Proposal (RFP) for an independent evaluation
contractor to conduct a comprehensive Needs Assessment/Analysis of the Cuyahoga County Public
Behavioral Health and Recovery System to the Full Board. MOTION: R. Fowler / SECOND: K. Kern-Pilch / AYES:
E. Caraballo, R. Fowler, E. Kirkland, K. Kern-Pilch, M. Step / NAYS: None ABSTAIN: None / Motion passed.
17. REQUEST FOR ISSUANCE OF RFP FOR STRATEGIC PLAN
Ms. Fischer noted that the ADAMHS Board utilized a Strategic Plan to position the Board and its service delivery
system for success in a recovery oriented system of care that is continually changing and increasingly demanding.
The Strategic Plan is intended to be a living document that will be modified with the ever-changing environment and
will be regularly reviewed and updated as needed by the ADAMHS Board of Directors and leadership staff. The
ADAMHS Board is currently operating under the 2017-2020 Strategic Plan. Executive staff and Board members are
requesting to begin the process of developing the 2021-2025 Strategic Plan in the second quarter of 2020, with a
completion date and approval by the Board of Directors during the November 18, 2020 General Meeting.
Motion to recommend authorization to issue a Request for Proposal (RFP) seeking a consultant for the
development of a 2021-2025 Strategic Plan for the ADAMHS Board of Cuyahoga County to the Full Board.
MOTION: R. Fowler / SECOND: K. Kern-Pilch / AYES: E. Caraballo, R. Fowler, E. Kirkland, K. Kern-Pilch, M. Step /
NAYS: None ABSTAIN: None / Motion passed.
18. OLD/NEW BUSINESS - None
There being no audience comment or further business, the meeting adjourned at 6:24 p.m.
Submitted by: Linda Lamp, Executive Assistant
Approved by: Eugenia Kirkland, LSW, MSSA, CDCA, Planning & Oversight Committee Chair

Page 7 of 7

 