ALCOHOL, DRUG ADDICTION & MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES BOARD OF CUYAHOGA COUNTY
GENERAL MEETING MINUTES
JULY 31, 2019
ADAMHS BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT:
Rev. Benjamin F. Gohlstin, Sr.
Steve Killpack, MS
Reginald C. Blue, Ph.D.
Eugenia Kirkland, LSW, MSSA, CDCA
Erskine Cade, MBA
Max M. Rodas, MA
Elsie Caraballo
Sharon Rosenbaum, MBA
Gwendolyn A. Howard, LSW, MSSA
Harvey A. Snider, Esq.
Katie Kern-Pilch, ATR-BC, LPC-S
Mary M. Step, Ph.D.
ABSENT: Gregory X. Boehm, M.D., J. Robert Fowler, Ph.D.
BOARD STAFF PRESENT: Scott Osiecki, Chief Executive Officer, Curtis Couch, Tami Fischer, Cheryl Fratalonie, Felicia
Harrison, Myra Henderson, Leslie Koblentz, Carol Krajewski, Linda Lamp, Madison Scagnetti, Starlette Sizemore-Rice, Larry
Smith, Lavedia Smith, Maggie Tolbert, Tom Williams, Leshia Yarbrough-Franklin
1. CALL TO ORDER / AUDIENCE INPUT
Chairperson, Benjamin Gohlstin, called the General Meeting to order at 4:00 p.m.; no audience input received on agenda items.
2. ST. VINCENT CHARITY MEDICAID UPPER PAYMENT LIMIT UPDATE
Kelli Perk, Assistant Prosecuting Attorney from the Office of County Prosecutor, Michael C. O’Malley, addressed the Upper
Payment Limit proposal of St. Vincent Charity Medical Center (SVCMC). Based upon a meeting of SVCMC staff and staff from
the Ohio Department of Medicaid, the Department of Medicaid drafted a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU). If the State and
the Federal Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services approves this, Ms. Perk noted that she would not have a problem with the
arrangement that would strive to keep SVCMHC viable for the services provided to clients of the ADAMHS Board of Cuyahoga
County. The MOU is an agreement to move forward in the planning stages. Before any official action is taken, the Medicaid Upper
Payment Limit will be brought before the Board of Directors and the public.
3. RECOGNITION OF CLIENT ARTWORK DISPLAY – July 2019
Madison Scagnetti, External Affairs Officer, highlighted the work produced by AHH! Heart Helps & Heals Art Therapy Program of
the Far West Center. She introduced the artists in attendance--Blair, Barbara & Brent--who were awarded Certificates of
Participation for their impressive artwork. Comments from two of the artists: “Art therapy helps me to heal without the need for
words” and “Art therapy sessions are a way for me to check-in every week, a way to touch base.”
4.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES - The minutes from the June 26, 2019 General Meeting were approved as written.

5. CHAIR’S REPORT
Roles & Responsibilities - Rev. Gohlstin addressed the document included in the Board agenda packet entitled, Delineating
Roles & Responsibilities for Board Members and the Chief Executive Officer (CEO). He reported that the CEO is the one
responsible for the hiring, supervising, monitoring and removing of employees and consultants. The CEO also sets the
compensation for employees and consultants within the operating budget that the Board approves. Rev. Gohlstin stated that he
was emphasizing this topic as recently there were some questions raised about Board members making suggestions to the CEO
regarding possible employees or consultants. It was noted that Board members may make suggestions, but it does not mean
that our CEO has to act on a specific suggestion.
GOSH (Great Office Solution Helper) Update - Rev. Gohlstin reported that during the July 24th Finance & Operations Committee
Meeting, a detailed update was presented by Curtis Couch, Chief Technology & Data Analytics Officer, on the implementation of
the GOSH system. During the update, he pointed out that 24 providers are live and billing through the system, 4 providers have
completed testing but have not yet starting billing, 9 providers are in the testing stage, and 17 have not started the testing phase.

 General Meeting Minutes

July 31, 2019

Rev. Gohlstin wanted Board members to be aware of an issue that despite numerous e-mails, meetings and trainings, 30
providers (approximately half of the Board’s providers) are not billing through the system. Without going into all the details, the
bottom line is that many agencies have not started billing through GOSH, which was up and running before our deadline, and
that payments from January 1 through June 30 have to be entered into the system by August 15. If they are not entered before
the deadline, they will not be paid.
Mr. Osiecki and his team met with providers during an All Provider Meeting yesterday and discussed these issues. Many of the
providers who have not started had no excuse for why they had not begun the process and took responsibility. Because so many
providers have not started, it is going to cause a backlog on our end in approving nearly 4,000 enrollments, testing, authorizing
and paying claims. Also, any preliminary payments we provided during the interim billing process will have to be returned,
including the 2 months of funding we provided to agencies to help with cash flow. Additionally, if the enrollments and claims are
submitted and then rejected due to errors, they also will not be paid.
6. COMMUNITY RELATIONS & ADVOCACY (CR&A) COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Chair, Harvey Snider, reported on the CR&A Committee meeting held on 7/10/19 where committee members were
introduced to the Board’s new AmeriCorps Vista worker: Jacob Rosebrock.
▪ Legislative Update: State Budget, Meet Our Legislators Series, Federal SOR Funds
▪ Behavioral Health Wellness Fair held on Monday, July 22, 2019
▪ Suicide Prevention Awareness Month Activities
- Suicide Prevention Charity Spotlight Advertising - $2,500 (Action Required)
- QPR-A-Thon
- Thyme Table Restaurant And Bar Donation
▪ Sponsorships (Recommended for approval in Consent Agenda)
▪ Training Update - Roads to Recovery Conference, etc.
▪ Annual Meeting Wrap Up
▪ Eugene Sopher’s Coloring Pages Discussion
▪ Social Media and Media Tracking Reports
Mr. Snider commended Board staff for planning and implementing an “absolutely wonderful” Wellness Fair on behalf of clients.
Dr. Mary Step noted that evaluation forms were distributed to Wellness Fair participants and that the Board’s Client Rights Officers
will be providing a detailed report.
7. PLANNING & OVERSIGHT (P&O) COMMITTEE REPORT
P&O Committee Chair, Eugenia Kirkland, reported on the P&O Committee meeting held on 7/17/19 and addressed the
following topics:
▪ Cuyahoga County Domestic Relations Court presentation by Magistrate Judy Jackson-Winston
▪ Update on plans for the Travel the Road to Wellness: Behavioral Health Wellness Fair – Scheduled for July 22, 2019
▪ A Reiki Presentation by Rosanne Radziewicz, MSN, APRN-CNS, Psychiatric Advanced Practice Nurse & Reiki Master
▪ Northeast Ohio Collaborative: Withdrawal Management/Detoxification and Crisis Bed Expansion
▪ St. Vincent Charity Upper Payment Limit Update
▪ SFY2019-2020 Community Plan
▪ Strategic Plan Update and Discussion Regarding Strategic Plan CY2021-2025
 RESOLUTION NO. 19-07-01
APPROVAL OF SFY2019 and 2020 COMMUNITY PLAN
Ms. Kirkland reported that the Planning & Oversight Committee members were very impressed with the quantity and quality of
information shared in the Board’s Community Plan and recommends approval to the full Board in order to submit the plan to
OhioMHAS by the 8/01/19 deadline. Given no objections, a vote was taken.
Motion to approve the Resolution No. 19-07-01. MOTION: R. Blue / SECOND: K. Kern-Pilch / AYES: R. Blue, E. Cade,
E. Caraballo, B. Gohlstin, G. Howard, K. Kern-Pilch, S. Killpack, E. Kirkland, M. Rodas, S. Rosenbaum, H. Snider, M. Step
NAYS: None / ABSTAIN: None / Motion passed

2

 General Meeting Minutes

July 31, 2019

8. NOMINATING COMMITTEE REPORT
Elsie Caraballo, Nominating Committee Chair, reported that the committee met on 7/24/19 at 3:00 pm to review all of the 15
applications received. An additional 11 applications were received; however, they were found to be ineligible for consideration
due to either a conflict of interest situation or a residency issue pursuant to Ohio Revised Code §340.02.
Decisions were made to determine which candidates would be invited to an in-person interview members of the Nominating
Committee. There currently are 3 Board vacant seats—1 County vacancy and 2 state vacant appointment seats. With regard to
reappointments, it is anticipated that Board members, Erskine Cade and Max Rodas, will be reappointed by County Council
during the next Council meeting cycle. The County Executive’s Office has notified us Mr. Budish intends to recommend Ms.
Crystal Bryant to fill the unexpired term of Hugh B. Shannon.
9. FINANCE & OPERATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT
Steve Killpack, Finance & Operations Committee Chair, reported on the F&O Committee meeting held on 7/24/19. Four
information items were reviewed by the committee: the State Budget, the SVCMHC Upper Payment Limit, the 2020 Budget
Process and the extensive report on GOSH.
CONSENT AGENDA: Resolution Nos.19-07-02 through 19-07-04
.
 RESOLUTION NO. 19-07-02 - ACCEPTING THE REPORT OF THE CEO ON EXPENDITURES AND VOUCHERS
PROCESSED FOR PAYMENT DURING JUNE 2019
Mr. Killpack reported the Board is 50% through the year; the Administrative budget expenses in June amounted to $354,921.00.
The year-to-date figure stands at $2,344,122.00 which is 41.26% of the total Administrative budget. The Board is a bit over budget
in a few line items but overall is within the Board’s budget in all categories. The Board has received 80% of its revenue to date.
Expenditures in June totaled $5,858,492.00 bringing our total expenses for the first six months to $26,928,415.00 that is 42% of
our anticipated expenditures for the year.
 RESOLUTION NO. 19-07-03 – APPROVAL AND RATIFICATION OF CONTRACTS:
1. Ohio Department of Mental Health & Addiction Services (OhioMHAS): Projects for Assistance in Transition from
Homelessness (PATH) Program – Pass Through Funds - $451,119.12
o FrontLine Service - $338,339.34
o ADAMHS Board Local Match - $112,779.78
2. OhioMHAS: Problem Gambling Treatment and Prevention- Casino Grant - Pass Through Funds
o Recovery Resources - $207,608.00
3. Opportunities for Ohioans with Disabilities Agency – FFY20 Case Service Contract -$2,326,612.48
o Jewish Family Services Association - $336,913.55
o Recovery Resources, Inc. - $414,698.93
o Pooled funds managed by OOD - $1,575,000.00
4. Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Court/Corrections Planning Board: Residential Services for Men with a Dual Diagnosis
o Catholic Charities/Matt Talbot – Not to exceed $160,000.00
5. Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Court/Corrections Planning Board (CCPB): Community-based Mental Health Program
o Recovery Resources – Not to exceed $172,000.00
6. Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Court/CCPB: Treatment Services for Intensive Service Probation
o Catholic Charities/Matt Talbot – Not to exceed $219,000.00
7. Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Court/CCPB: Treatment Services for Jail Reduction/Diversion Program
o Community Assessment & Treatment Services (CATS) – Not to exceed $231,000.00
8. Northeast Ohio Collaborative: Withdrawal Management Expansion Program - $345,633.00
- Ravenwood - $225,000.00
- Windsor Laurelwood - $72,380.00
- Stella Maris - $48,253.00

3

 General Meeting Minutes

July 31, 2019

9. Sponsorships:
o Edna's House Recovery Race (Sun., October 6, 2019, Edgewater Park) - $1,000.00
o Epilepsy Association Race the River (Sun., September, 15 2019, Merwin’s Wharf) - $850.00
o Cleveland Playhouse CARE Performance and Workshops (Sept.9 – Dec. 20, 2019) - $750.00
o Community Solutions Celebration of Human Services (Oct. 25, 2019, Hilton Garden Inn Downtown) - $500.00
o 7th Annual Celebrating Recovery Run (Sunday, September 15, 2019, Edgewater Park) - $500.00
o National African American Male Wellness Walk (Saturday, August 31, 2019, Luke Easter Park) - $250.00
10. Charity Spotlight: Suicide Prevention Campaign - $2,500.00
 RESOLUTION NO. 19-07-04 - APPROVAL OF CONTRACT AMENDMENTS:
1. Amendment to Resolution 18-07-02, Mental Health Prison ReEntry Program – (Carry-over Funding)
o FrontLine Service - $410,088.00
2. Amendment to Resolution 19-03-03, OhioMHAS Multi-System Youth Grant – (Carry-over Funding)
o Applewood Centers, Inc. - $31,546.11
Motion to approve the Consent Agenda (Resolution Nos. 19-07-02 through 19-07-04). MOTION: H. Snider
SECOND: R. Blue / AYES: R. Blue, E. Cade, E. Caraballo, B. Gohlstin, G. Howard, K. Kern-Pilch, S. Killpack, E. Kirkland,
M. Rodas, S. Rosenbaum, H. Snider, M. Step / NAYS: None / ABSTAIN: None / Motion passed
10. CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REPORT - Scott S. Osiecki
 Staff Update:
o On July 8, 2019, Board staff officially welcomed Larry Smith to the ADAMHS Board as its new Director of Programs.
o The posting period has closed for the vacant Behavioral Health Prevention Specialist, the Adult Behavioral Health
Specialist II (Criminal Justice) and the Adult Behavioral Health Specialist II (Residential) positions. Over 20 resumes
were received for each position; interviews will be scheduled during August.
o Yancey Quinn, Programmer/Database Specialist, has resigned from the Board effective August 16th and has accepted
a position with the County Prosecutor’s Office. Mr. Couch is currently reviewing the job description for any necessary
changes and the position will be posted soon.
 State Budget
Mr. Osiecki noted that a detailed report was shared at the Finance & Operations Committee Meeting. A few highlights that
affects Boards are shown below:
o
o
o
o
o
o

o
o
o
o
o

$1.5 million per year for continued crisis stabilization through the Collaboratives.
$6 million for withdrawal management through the Collaboratives.
$64,000 base allocation per year for ADAMHS Boards
$1.25 million to Boards for provision of evidenced-based prevention services.
$17 million for criminal justice services, which may be allocated through Boards.
Special earmarks identified for specific programs:
- $375,000 for Bellefaire Jewish Children’s Bureau
- $100,000 for Applewood Centers
- $250,000 for LifeAct
$5.75 million per year for crisis services & $9.25 million for crisis infrastructure in FY20.
$18 million per year for K-12 prevention education.
$13 million for state-wide anti-stigma campaign
$5 million for Mental Health First Aid Training.
$16 million to reopen Residential State Supplement Program and provide training for residential facilities.

 All Provider Meeting
An All Provider Meeting was held on Tuesday, January 30th. Approximately 100 representatives from providers were present
to learn about the CY20 Budget Process. Mr. Osiecki informed providers that the Board may not be contracting with all of
the same providers as this year or may adjust contract amounts either higher or lower than current contracts. With regard
to the funding pool balance during the last quarter of the year, Board staff may open it to other programs that needed
additional money. However, this is on hold since so many providers are not yet working in the GOSH system.

4

 General Meeting Minutes

July 31, 2019

 CY20 ADAMHS Board Funding Request
Board members received hard copies of the CY20 ADAMHS Board Funding Request that describes the data to be collected
from providers for the first 6 months of 2019 for only those programs funded by the ADAMHS Board. Mr. Osiecki explained
that although the Board has requested additional funding from the County for CY20/21, it will not learn of a final determination
by the County until December 2019. OhioMHAS has also received additional funding in the SFY 20/21 budget for targeted
programs, but no decisions on the amounts of funding have been made. Therefore, the Board is proceeding with developing
the CY20 budget based on the CY19 allocations from both the County and OhioMHAS.
Mr. Osiecki highlighted the data to be requested of providers to be used to determine the services it plans on purchasing
from its current providers for FY2020. He added that submission of the CY20 Funding Request form is not a guarantee of a
contract. He added that the ADAMHS Board not accepting applications for new providers or services at this time.
The CY20 ADAMHS Board Funding Request will be sent out to provider agencies in August, and providers will be given 2530 days to submit the information requested. This proposed timeline will allow Board staff time to review, determine and
present the budget information during the October and November Board meeting cycles.
 State Opiate Response (SOR) Grant
Our Board received notice from OhioMHAS about 2 large SOR funding opportunities that focus on minority populations that
are only available to Boards in collaboration with community partners:
- $11 million for Treatment to Minority Populations, with as much as $1 million per award.
- $16 million for increasing Access and Services to High Risk Families, with as much as $2 million per award.
Grant applications are both due on 9/20/19 with the awards being made by 9/30/19, with the expectation that projects will
begin on 10/01/19. It was noted that this is one year, one-time funding.
o Addiction Treatment Program (ADP)
We received notice that the Addiction Treatment Program provided in relation to the Courts will continue to receive funding
in FY20 from OhioMHAS in the amount of $325,000. In addition, our Board was approved to utilize carryover funds from
SFY19. The individual must have a substance use disorder to be eligible for the program, and we no longer have to limit the
eligibility to only people with an Opioid or Alcohol Use Disorder.
o Community Transition Program (CTP)
Notice has been received notice from OhioMHAS that Boards will now be administering the Community Transition Program
to support the successful recovery for individuals transitioning from prison to the community who have a SUD or mental
illness. This program was formerly administered by CareSource, but OhioMHAS and the Boards feel the change of
administration will help with linkages to local services and increase communication and collaboration.
Board member feedback:
o Q: With regard to providers reporting outcome metrics, will providers be given an opportunity or additional time period to
meet their goals?
o A: Mr. Osiecki responded that the deadline would be December 31, 2019; however, if an agency had not, at least, reached
50% of its goals, Board staff will need to consider this closely and to may need to make necessary adjustments.
o Discussion followed on how is it possible that some providers are not billing for their services. Mr. Osiecki noted that this
issue was brought forward at the All Providers Meeting; no response was received from those present.
o With regard to the Community Transition Program, a concern was expressed about the number of individuals released
from prison who are sent to 2100 Lakeside without a plan for support, etc. Ms. Kirkland advocated for changing and/or
improving this situation and to address the need for better assessments.
o Mr. Osiecki reported that on 8/05/19 Board staff will be meeting with representatives of MetroHealth Medical Center to
develop a plan to help curb the suicides that are happening in the Cuyahoga County Jail. Board staff will keep Board
members posted.

5

 General Meeting Minutes

July 31, 2019

11. OLD BUSINESS
o

Mr. Snider asked NAMI Greater Cleveland Executive Director, Christina Mignogna, to share information about the NAMI
Walk plans for September. Ms. Mignogna reminded all that the NAMI Walk is scheduled for Saturday, September 14 th
at Upper Edgewater Park; check-in time is 9:00 AM, starting at 10:00 AM. The goal for this walk is $165,000. All are
encouraged to participate and/or contribute to this fundraising effort.

12. NEW BUSINESS
o

Rev. Gohlstin recognized Carol Krajewski, Executive Specialist, for her work at the ADAMHS Board and noted her ability
to remain at an even keel no matter what the situation. He noted that the Board of Directors wished to say farewell to
her upon her retirement from public service and to say “job well done”. Ms. Krajewski shared a few remarks about her
specific work over the years with Board staff and the Board of Directors and was touched by the generosity of Board
members for the many gifts presented--a beautifully engraved vase, two dozen white roses, an everlasting candle, and
a very impressive potluck buffet; she truly felt very blessed.

13. AUDIENCE INPUT - None
There being no further business, the meeting adjourned at 4:50 p.m.
Submitted by:

Approved by:

Carol Krajewski, Executive Specialist

________________________________________________________________________
Rev. Benjamin F. Gohlstin, Sr., Chairperson, ADAMHS Board of Cuyahoga County

6

 