THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
INCLUSION & DIVERSITY COMMITTEE MEETING MINUTES
Date: Wednesday, February 13, 2019
Time: 2:00pm – 4:00pm
Place: Board Room – K107
Chair: Ms. Whiting
Trustees: Ms. Whiting, Mr. McDonald, Ms. Dee, Ms. Anderson, Mr. Hairston
Present: Dr. Boutros, Dr. Boulanger, Dr. Werner, Ms. Gallagher, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Martucci, Mr, Jones,
Mr. Nevel, Ms. Southerington, Ms. Short, Ms. Diaz, Ms. Lining, Ms. Rajki, Mr. Stern
MINUTES
The meeting was called to order by Ms. Whiting at 2:00pm.
1. The minutes of the August 8, 2018 meeting were reviewed and approved.

2. Ms. Short shared the Q4 2018 Inclusion and Diversity update.
a) Facilitated interactive sessions for GME, NOHIMA, Baldwin Wallace University on Cultural
Competence
b) Solidified planning efforts and communication plans for upcoming 5 th Annual Transgender
Career Fair
c) Submitted feedback survey for Crucial Conversions and Special Topics to inform 2019 calendar
of events
d) Facilitated ongoing REaL education sessions. Published article in Ohio Hospital Association
Hospital Improvement Innovation Network “Addressing Health Disparities Through REaL Dat
”
Collection
e) Initiated planning for the conversion of ERGs to EBRGs
f) Collaborated with ERGs – Women in Metro and African American Alliance programs
g) Strengthened the triad between I&D, HR Business Partners, and Employee/Labor Relations
h) 13 individual and group coaching sessions led by I&D
3. Mr. Nevel presented I&D’s 2019 Key Areas of Focus
o Increase accessibility of I&D programming to Ambulatory sites
o Conversion rate of ERGs to EBRGs (Business-focused)
o Secure and retain employment opportunities for LWSSH students
o Educate Providers on Transgender patient care
o Identify I&D Consulting Partner
4. Mr. Nevel facilitated discussion regarding I&D scorecard goals for 2019 and it was determined that
further discussion was needed by a subset of the committee to develop a shared point of view and

 subsequently present to the committee.


Recruiting and Retention Opportunities:
o Develop a holistic plan to recruit top nursing talent, opposed to a decentralized approach
o Widen our net of nursing talent to increase the number of candidates screened for
openings and reduce time to fill rates
o Identification and deepening of relational strategic partnerships with colleges/universities
and professional organizations
o Deploy additional developmental resources to engage and retain nursing staff

5. Ms. Gallagher shared the following data collection changes for 2019 Provider Recruitment.
• Monthly meetings between Recruiters and Office Professional Affairs to collect data for
reporting
• Monthly reporting to Human Resources vs Quarterly
• Monthly reporting to Human Resources of any targeted recruitment
6. Mr. Martucci presented Supplier Diversity.
o Presented Q4 2018 Baseline and Local/Regional Spend Trend: at 52% (stretch)
o Presented Baseline and Diverse Spend Trend:
➢ Q4 2018: Spend trend is at 15.6% (we are at stretch for this goal)
o Q4 Highlights:
o Outreach:
o Emerald Cities E-Contractor Academy network night
o Urban League of Greater Cleveland “How to do Business with MetroHealth”
o GCP’s Minority Business Growth Committee for Supplier Diversity
o GCP “The Anatomy of a Bid” event
o Premier’s supplier diversity committee meeting
o MHS’s 1st diverse supplier reverse trade show
o Tours:
o ASW Global
o Tri-C’s new supply chain and logistics warehouse built in support of a new program
8. Mr. Jones presented Q4 2018 Transformation Diverse Spend.
Meeting adjourned at 3:50pm
The next BOT meeting is scheduled for May 22, 2019
Respectfully submitted by Alan K. Nevel

 