 DRAFT 11-27-18

GATEWAY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION OF GREATER CLEVELAND

Minutes of a Meeting of the
Board of Trustees

Held on November 14, 2018
1:00 o'clock p.m.

Of?ces of
Climaco, Wilcox, Peca Garofoli Co., L.P.A.
55 Public Square, Suite 1950
Cleveland, Ohio

There being a quorum present, Mr. Silliman called the meeting to order at approximately 1:00
p.m. Board members Ken Silliman, Matt Carroll, William Reidy and David Ebersole were
present as was newly appointed Board member Davida Russell. Also present were Todd
Greathouse (telephonically), Brian Kelly, and Daniella Nunnally of Gateway, as well as Dennis
Wilcox and Scott Simpkins as Gateway?s General Counsel. Also present was Gateway?s
Engineering Consultant David Faller. Present from Stifel Nicolaus on behalf of Cuyahoga
County was Robert Franz. Present from the Indians was Jim Folk. Present from the Cavs were
Beverly Skoar, Tim Naso, and Michael Lathrop. Present from the media was Kevin Kleps of
Crain?s Cleveland. Present from the public was William Tarter.

Mr. Silliman opened the meeting and asked for approval of the Minutes of the August 8, 2018
meeting. Upon motion made by Mr. Carroll, and seconded by Mr. Ebersole, the Minutes were
unanimously approved 4-0.

Next, Mr. Silliman asked if there was any public comment. Mr. Tartar asked about the impact
on the maintenance costs of the recent announcement that the 2022 NBA All-Star game will be
held at the Arena. Mr. Silliman responded that his understanding is that the 2022 NBA All-Star
game will have no impact on the maintenance fund and he will advise at the next board meeting
if things change or if his understanding is somehow incorrect.

Mr. Silliman then asked Mr. Wilcox to introduce Resolution 2018-7 for approval of the
appointment of Ms. Russell to serve on the Board of Trustees as one of the City?s appointees to
replace Emmanuel Glover with her term to commence immediately and to expire May 31, 2022.
Based on the presentation and motion by Mr. Carroll and seconded by Mr. Ebersole, the
following Resolution 2018-7 was unanimously approved by the Board:

RESOLUTION NO. 2018?7

REGARDING SEATING OF DAVIDA RUSSELL
AS A MEMBER OF THE BOARD

OF GATEWAY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION OF GREATER CLEVELAND

WHEREAS. Emmanuel Glover was previously appointed as a member of the Corporation?s
Board of Trustees as an appointment for the City of Cleveland; and

WHEREAS, the term of Mr. Glover has expired and the City has designated his replacement;
and

WHEREAS, the Board has been noti?ed by the Mayor of the City of Cleveland he wishes to
designate Davida Russell to serve as an appointee of the City for the term commencing
immediately and expiring May 31, 2022; and

WHEREAS, such appointment was con?rmed by the Council of the City.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Davida Russell be and hereby is seated as a
member of the Board of Trustees and as a member of the Corporation as an appointee of the City
of Cleveland to replace Emmanuel Glover, such term to commence immediately and to expire
May 31, 2022, subject to reappointment by the Mayor.



The Board then heard the Executive Director?s report presented by Mr. Kelly on behalf of Mr.
Greathouse. Mr. Kelly reported on Arena Major Capital Repair requests. With regard to the
Arena Roof project, the majority of the roof has been addressed to date with the ?nal Roof-O as
designated in the Board materials to be addressed in the Spring of 2019. Mr. Silliman gave an
overview of the Major Capital process. Ms. Nunnally then addressed the inclusion report for this
project included in the Board materials stating that with the project 71 percent complete, MBE is
currently at 20 percent, FBE is currently at 15 percent and CSB is currently at 1 percent.

Mr. Kelly then gave an update of the HVAC project for the Arena stating that they have spent
approximately $11 million and the project is progressing on schedule and on budget. With
regard to inclusion, Ms. Nunnally discussed the inclusion report included in the Board materials
stating that MBE is currently at 15 percent, FBE is currently at 55 percent and CSB is currently
at 16 percent. Ms. Nunnally noted that the inclusion report included the identi?cation of
subcontractors to address Mr. Silliman?s request for additional information on inclusion at the
last Board meeting and she stated the report at the next meeting should include additional
information on workforce participation.

Mr. Kelly then addressed the Arena major capital request first readings which were: (1) the
sports lighting; and (2) the ice plant and ice ?oor. Mr. Faller ?rst addressed the sports lighting
stating that much of the equipment is from the initial installation in 1994 and, although properly
maintained, is well past its useful life and in need of replacement. Mr. Faller also noted that the
estimated $515,000 replacement cost places it just above the $500,000 threshold for
identi?cation as a major capital repair. Mr. Faller then addressed the ice plant and ice ?oor and
noted that much of this equipment is likewise from the initial installation from 1994 and in need

of replacement. Further, the $4,800,000 cost would place this project above the $500,000
threshold for major capital repairs.

Mr. aller then addressed the Arena second read for the Arena lighting controls project which
consists of replacing two Arena lighting control systems, the house lighting system, and the bowl
control system, both of which are from the initial installation in 1994. He noted that the
$983,454 cost places it above the major capital repair threshold. Mr. Faller also noted that now
is an appropriate time to perform the replacement while the Arena is undergoing the
Transformation Project. Mr. Silliman explained the approval process and then introduced
Resolution No. 2018-8 recommending approval of the lighting controls project as a Major
Capital Repair. Based on the presentation and motion of Mr. Carroll and seconded by Mr.
Ebersole, the following Resolution 2018-8 was unanimously approved by the Board:

RESOLUTION NO. 2018?8

REGARDING RECOMMENDATION WITH RESPECT TO
REQUEST FOR MAJOR CAPITAL REPAIRS FROM
THE CAVALIERS OPERATING COMPANY, LLC

WHEREAS, Gateway Economic Development Corporation of Greater Cleveland
(?Gateway?) has agreed to provide for Major Capital Repairs as de?ned in the Lease dated as of
October 12, 2017 (the ?Lease?) between Gateway and Cavaliers Operating Company, LLC (the
?Cleveland Cavaliers?); and

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees (the ??Board?) of Gateway has previously noti?ed the
City of Cleveland, Ohio (?City?) and Cuyahoga County (?County?) that Gateway does not have
suf?cient funds to pay Major Capital Repairs as de?ned in the Lease and requested the
respective appointing authorities of Gateway, the City and the County, to consider such funding
of Maj or Capital Repairs; and

WHEREAS, on May 9, 2012 the Board adopted Resolution No. 2012-1 setting forth its
policies and procedures with respect to Major Capital Repairs (?Policy?); and

WHEREAS, the Cleveland Cavaliers have submitted a request for approval of Major
Capital Repairs to the Arena under the Lease; and

WHEREAS, the Board has reviewed such request and pursuant to the Policy has received
information from its professional consultant recommending approval of such items as noted on
Exhibit A as Maj or Capital Repairs; and

WHEREAS, the Gateway Board desires to recommend approval of the Major Capital
Repairs request from the Cleveland Cavaliers as further described in Exhibit A attached hereto.

NOW, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Trustees of Gateway, on behalf of Gateway,
?nds that the requested Major Capital Repairs from the Cleveland Cavaliers for the Arena,

attached as Exhibit A hereto, are Major Capital Repairs under the Lease and are hereby
recommended for approval.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that this Resolution, including the attached Exhibit A,
constitutes Gateway?s recommendation under the Policy and shall be forwarded to the City and
the County forthwith and Gateway shall continue to provide information to the City and the
County as requested to support this recommendation.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that the Board respectfully requests the County or City
make a decision as to this recommendation no later than December 2018.



EXHIBIT A
ARENA MAJOR CAPITAL REPAIRS
LIGHTING CONTROLS - $983,454

Mr. Silliman then asked Mr. Kelly to address the proposed operating budget for 2019. Mr. Kelly
reviewed the proposed operating budget for 2019. The total budget for both teams was
$4,734,310, an increase of $61,716 or 1.3% from the prior year. He went through the budget in
detail with the Board, including the various increases, the most signi?cant being security, which
went up $68,964. The security went up due to increased costs for personnel from Securitas and
because of also using Willow Security for additional security.

Then, Mr. Kelly reviewed the separate budgets for Progressive Field and the Quicken Loans
Arena, with the Progressive Field budget going up about 0.3% and the Quicken Loans Arena
approximately 

After further discussion, he noted that both teams had approved these budgets and they were
ready for approval by the Board. On motion made by Mr. Carroll, seconded by Mr. Ebersole, the
following Resolution 2018-9 was unanimously approved by the Board:

RESOLUTION NO. 2018-9

REGARDING AUTHORIZATION AND
APPROVAL OF ANNUAL OPERATING BUDGET
FOR 2019

WHEREAS, Gateway Economic Development Corporation of Greater Cleveland
(?Gateway?) has entered into Lease Agreements with The Cleveland Indians Baseball Company
Limited Partnership (?Indians?) and the Cavaliers Operating Company, LLC (?Cavaliers?)
(collectively the ?Lease Agreements?); and

WHEREAS, the Lease Agreements provide for determination of rent to be paid by each
of the Cavaliers and Indians pursuant to an annual operating budget approved by Gateway; and

WHEREAS, such budget is to be approved by Gateway by November 15 of the
preceding year for the annual budget, or as soon as practicable thereafter; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Lease Agreements, Gateway has worked with the Indians
and Cavaliers to develop the 2019 annual operating budget and presented the same to the Board
of Trustees; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees wishes to adopt and approve Gateway?s 2019 annual
operating budget.

NOW, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Trustees of Gateway (the ?Board?) on
behalf of Gateway does hereby authorize and approve Gateway?s annual operating budget,
including for the Cleveland Indians and Cleveland Cavaliers, as presented and attached hereto as
Exhibit A.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that the Chairman or Secretary-Treasurer are and each of
them is hereby authorized and empowered for and on behalf of Gateway in its name to take all
actions necessary to carry out the foregoing budget or to modify the same pursuant to the Lease
Agreements without further action or noti?cation to the Board, which such of?cer or of?cers
shall in his, her or their judgment be deemed necessary, advisable or desirable in connection
therewith, which execution or approval shall constitute the conclusive evidence of the approval
and authorization thereto of Gateway.



Next Mr. Kelly reviewed the Capital Budget for Progressive Field for 2018 and referred the
Board to the enclosed spreadsheet. The total amount for 2019 is projected to be $2,431,362,
which is more than the $2,275.000 for 2018. He noted that the Indians fund this budget.

On further discussion and review by the Board, upon motion made by Mr. Ebersole, seconded by
Mr. Carroll the following Resolution 2018-10 was unanimously approved by the Board:

RESOLUTION NO. 2018-10

REGARDING AUTHORIZATION AND
APPROVAL OF ANNUAL CAPITAL BUDGET
FOR THE CLEVELAND INDIANS FOR 2019

WHEREAS, Gateway Economic Development Corporation of Greater Cleveland
(?Gateway?) has entered into a Lease Agreement with The Cleveland Indians Baseball Company
Limited Partnership (?Indians?) (the ?Lease Agreement?); and

WHEREAS, the Lease Agreement provides for the Indians to perform capital repairs in
the Ballpark on behalf of Gateway; and

WHEREAS, the Indians and Gateway have annually agreed to a capital repair budget
under the Lease to be funded by the Indians and performed by Gateway and the Indians (the
?Budget?); and

WHEREAS. Gateway has worked with the Indians to develop the 2019 annual capital
budget and presented the same to the Board of Trustees; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees wishes to adopt and approve Gateway?s 2019 annual
capital budget with the Indians.

NOW, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Trustees of Gateway (the ?Board?) on
behalf of Gateway does hereby authorize and approve Gateway?s annual capital budget with the
Indians as presented and attached hereto as Exhibit A.

BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that the Chairman or Secretary-Treasurer are and each of
them is hereby authorized and empowered for and on behalf of Gateway in its name to take all
actions necessary to carry out the foregoing budget or to modify the same pursuant to the Lease
Agreement without further action or noti?cation to the Board, which such of?cer or of?cers
shall in his, her or their judgment be deemed necessary, advisable or desirable in connection
therewith, which execution or approval shall constitute the conclusive evidence of the approval
and authorization thereto of Gateway.



Ms. Nunnally then provided an update on the Arena Transformation Project and the inclusion
reports contained in the Board materials. Ms. Nunnally stated that demolition is about 85
percent complete and installation of the structural I-beams is about 60 percent ?nished. She also
noted that installation of the exterior glass will be starting next week and support for the steel
curtain will begin. She also directed the Board members to the pictures contained in the Board
materials of the various special club areas that will be contained in the Arena when the
renovations are complete. Ms. Nunnally then addressed the diversity inclusion summary reports
in the Board materials and stated that so far 55.7 percent of the total $52,386,697 spent has been
spent on minority ?rms. Breaking this down, the ?gures for MBE are 17.1 percent, FBE is at
28.7 percent, and SBE is at 47.7 percent. Ms. Nunnally then shared the workforce participation
report showing that of the 81,171 total man-hours to date, MBE is at 26%, FBE at Cuyahoga
County residents at 56%, City of Cleveland residents at 24% and low income participation at


Mr. Kelly then provided an update on the major capital projects at the Ballpark. With regard to
the HVAC cooling towers and chillers, the project is complete subject to a few
performance/operational issues. On the safety and security systems project, the project is
complete subject to some ?nal camera installation/operation issues. On the High Steel Painting,
Mr. Kelly stated the project should be complete by December 1, 2018. Ms. Nunnally stated that
with just over $1.7 million spent, they have an FBE rate of 87 percent and a MBE rate of 11
percent. With regard to the concrete resurfacing, Mr. Kelly stated that the project is complete

subject to ?nalizing project documents. Ms. Nunnally then provided the inclusion ?gures with
an MBE at 4.7 percent and FBE at 8.5 percent.

On the ?eld lighting project, the ?eld lighting system is installed and operating, but not yet
installed per the RFP requirements and they are working with the contractor to close out the
project. With regard to the players? parking lot and fencing, Phase 1 is complete. With regard to
the data room air conditioning, they are about a week away from starting the cooling units. As
for the outside escalators, the RFP was issued and the pre-bid meeting occurred. Responses to
the RFP are due December 4, 2018 and installation is scheduled to occur after the end of the
2019 season. As for the club lunge renovation project, demolition started October 24, 2018 and
kitchen work will begin on November 23, 2018.

Mr. Kelly then referred the Board to the letter from the Indians in the Board materials requesting
consideration of various suite renovations as major capital repairs in accordance Gateway?s
policy. The Indians and Gateway will review the request with Mr. Faller?s assistance and report
back to the Board.

Next, the ?nancial reports were given by Mr. Kelly. He ?rst reviewed the Arena Transformation
Project submittal requests and noted that through October 25, 2019, $56,724,669 has been spent
and this has depleted the tax exempt bond portion of the funding (Series 2017A) and funding is
now into the federally taxable bonds (Series 2017B and C). He then addressed the Ballpark
Alterations account noting that since 2014 the total is over $40 million.

Mr. Kelly then referenced a Progressive Field major capital Spreadsheet. Mr. Kelly reported the
cumulative amount submitted thus far for the various categories equals $36,629,010 of the

$37,415,629 total before reallocation. This leaves a balance before reallocation of $786,618.

Upon motion made by Ms. Russell, seconded by Mr. Reidy, the Board adjourned the meeting at
approximately 2:10 pm.

APPROVED:

 

Secretary-Treasurer

