ALCOHOL, DRUG ADDICTION & MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES BOARD OF CUYAHOGA COUNTY
COMMUNITY RELATIONS & ADVOCACY (CR&A) COMMITTEE
JULY 10, 2019
Committee Members Present: Harvey A. Snider, Esq., Reginald C. Blue, Ph.D., Katie Kern-Pilch, ATR-BC, LPC-S,
Sharon Rosenbaum, MBA / Other Board members: Gregory X. Boehm, M.D.
Absent: Erskine Cade, MBA, Elsie Caraballo, Eugenia Kirkland, LSW, MSSA, CDCA,
Board Staff Present: Scott Osiecki, C.E.O., Carole Ballard, Christine Bohuslawsky-Brown, Tami Fischer, Bill Hebble,
Carol Krajewski, Linda Lamp, Jacob Rosebrock, Madison Scagnetti, Tom Williams, Beth Zietlow-DeJesus
Call to Order: Harvey Snider, Committee Chair, called the meeting to order at 4:00 p.m.
1. Approval of Minutes
The Community Relations & Advocacy Committee minutes from the 5/01/19 meeting were approved as submitted.
2. Legislative Update
State Budget: Scott Osiecki, Chief Executive Officer, reported that the State Budget is not yet complete. To date,
significant issues are that the Senate has removed $18 million funding for prevention activities in the schools as well
as funding for the Anti-Stigma Campaign. Consequently, the ADAMHS Board sent out an Advocacy Action Alert
regarding the Senate’s budget cuts to prevention education in the schools and the statewide anti-stigma campaign to
encourage people to contact their Senators.
Meet our Legislator Series: Madison Scagnetti, External Affairs Officer, reported that Representative Bride Rose
Sweeney, Ohio House District 14 (D), came to the ADAMHS Board on June 17th to meet with clients, family members,
staff, providers and other community members for the Meet Your Legislators Series. There was a lot of discussion
about the State Budget, her interest in higher education, parity, etc. The next scheduled meeting in the Legislator
Series will be on Monday, July 22, with Representative Jeffrey Crossman at 10:00 a.m.
Federal SOR (State Opioid Response) Funds: Beth Zietlow-DeJesus, Director of External Affairs, reported that
Senator Portman introduced the “Combatting Meth and Cocaine Act” that calls for the flexible use of State Opioid
Response funds to be used for other substance use disorders, not just opioid use disorder. This is something the
ADAMHS Boards have been advocating for and would also authorize SOR program funding for 5 more years at $500
million annually. No other information is available presently; however, Board members will be kept apprised of new
developments.
Ms. Zietlow-DeJesus introduced to committee members our new Americorp Vista worker, Jacob Rosebrock, who
started on 7/08/19 and will be on staff for the next year. Mr. Rosebrock is currently applying to dental school and looks
forward to working in this new capacity, as Community Relations & Engagement Specialist with the ADAMHS Board
and will work specifically on substance use disorders.
3. Behavioral Health Wellness Fair (July 22, 2019)
Clients Rights Officers, Bill Hebble and Christina Bohuslawsky-Brown, briefed committee members on the plans for
the upcoming Behavioral Health Wellness Fair scheduled for Monday, July 22, 2019 at the Cleveland Marriott Airport
on W. 150th Street. It was noted that this event will replace the Annual Client Picnic held in previous years.
Plans include scheduling inter-active sessions, health screenings and vendor tables. Interactive sessions will include:
aroma therapy, art therapy, destressing techniques, exercise & fitness, Reiki, gardening, diet/nutrition, meditation,
smoking cessation, etc.
1

 Community Relations & Advocacy Committee Minutes

July 10, 2019

The Behavioral Health Wellness Fair will offer:
▪ Health screenings--dental, vision and podiatry
▪ Benefits check-ups
▪ HIV testing and blood pressure screening by Recovery Resources
▪ Vendor tables
▪ Biometric screenings by MetroHealth Medical Center
The event will run from 10:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. and the Board anticipates serving 200 people. Mr. Hebble noted that
another flyer is being developed that will list the specific information shared on the reverse side and will be disseminated
prior to the event.
Mr. Snider, Committee Chair, recommended that the Board follow-up with group homes and providers so that they are
able to spread this information to their clients and plan for transportation needs. Mr. Snider noted that he is very excited
to learn about this new venture on behalf of clients.
Ms. Kern-Pilch will join 4 other Reiki Masters at the Behavioral Health Wellness Fair. She suggested that a brief Reiki
Presentation might be scheduled for a Planning & Oversight Committee meeting in order to introduce this concept.
Rosanne Radziewicz, Reiki Master Teacher and Psychiatric Advanced Practice Nurse formerly from MetroHealth
Medical Center, could be invited to present.
Ms. Christine Bohuslawsky-Brown, introduced herself as the new Clients Rights Officer, and noted that she has been
at the Board for almost a month. Her background includes work in the juvenile sector, with welfare fraud, at the County
Jail and now with the Board. She looks forward to her new role at the Board to advocate on behalf of clients.
4. Suicide Prevention Awareness Month Activities
 Suicide Prevention Charity Spotlight Advertising - The Suicide Prevention Coalition in preparing for its Suicide
Prevention Awareness Month (September) Campaign has an excellent opportunity to work with The Wave, 107.3
and the ADAMHS Board to promote suicide prevention through a Charity Spotlight campaign. The campaign will
raise funds for suicide prevention efforts while sharing information about suicide prevention in Cuyahoga County.
Ms. Zietlow-DeJesus explained that the ADAMHS Board has received donations from the following outside partners
to assist with suicide prevention efforts: Cuyahoga Valley Career Center donated $850.00 raised by staff and
students, $1,570.00 was raised by Rita Jermann, who hosts a suicide prevention concert each November in honor
of her brother, and The Education Services Center of Cuyahoga County is also donating $1,000.00 to the ADAMHS
Board for this campaign. It was noted that the $2,500.00 amount listed on the agenda process sheet will be covered
by the donations received for suicide prevention efforts.
Motion to approve the Charity Spotlight: Suicide Prevention Campaign in the amount of $2,500.00 to the
Finance & Operations Committee. MOTION: R. Blue / SECOND: K. Kern-Pilch / AYES: R. Blue, K. Kern-Pilch,
S. Rosenbaum, H. Snider NAYS: None / Motion passed.
 QPR-A-Thon - Boards across the state will be doing as many Question, Persuade and Refer (QPR) trainings during
Suicide Prevention Awareness Month. Carole Ballard, Director of Education and Training, noted that the ADAMHS
Board will be offering a concentrated week (September 9-16, 2019) of QPR Training to the community. She noted
that we are the only Northeast Ohio community that said yes to this initiative. Board staff will advertise QPR events,
go out into the community for trainings and keep track of the number of people trained. Additionally, the ADAMHS
Board has added an evening session of QPR training once a quarter from 4:00-6:00 p.m.
 Thyme Table Restaurant and Bar Donation – Ms. Zietlow-DeJesus shared that a new restaurant called Thyme
Table in Bay Village has donated funds raised from an event to the ADAMHS Board for suicide prevention efforts.
The event was held in honor of Anthony Bourdain’s birthday on June 25th. Mr. Bourdain died by suicide.
2

 Community Relations & Advocacy Committee Minutes

July 10, 2019

5. Sponsorships:
Ms. Zietlow-DeJesus highlighted the six Sponsorships recommended by Board staff to the CR&A Committee and
referenced the details provided in the individual agenda process sheets for:
 Edna's House Recovery Race (Sun., October 6, 2019, Edgewater Park) - $1,000.00
 Epilepsy Association Race the River (Sun., September, 15 2019, Merwin’s Wharf) - $850.00
 Cleveland Playhouse CARE Performance and Workshops (Sept.9 – Dec. 20, 2019) - $750.00
 Community Solutions Celebration of Human Services (October 25, 2019, Hilton Garden Inn) - $500.00
 6th Annual Celebrating Recovery Run (Sunday, September 15, 2019, Edgewater Park) - $500.00
 National African American Male Wellness Walk (Saturday, August 31, 2019, Luke Easter Park) - $250.00
Jeff Ryder of the Cleveland Playhouse shared information with committee members about the CARE Performance and
Workshops that are very important prevention programs benefitting more than 16,000 students in Cuyahoga County at
more than 80 schools. Mr. Ryder was also asked to share information about an upcoming play that is being run at
Playhouse in November called, Every Brilliant Thing. Given the Board’s mission, Mr. Snider suggested that Board staff
consider working collaboratively with the Cleveland Playhouse on this play. Mr. Ryder noted that Board representatives
would be welcome to be present at the lobby at the performances or help to promote future CARE events.
Motion to approve the sponsorships (listed above) to the Finance & Operations Committee.
MOTION: S. Rosenbaum / SECOND: R. Blue / AYES: R. Blue, K. Kern-Pilch, S. Rosenbaum, H. Snider
NAYS: None / Motion passed.
6. Training Update


Roads to Recovery Conference - Carole Ballard, Director of Education & Training, reported that the 2019 Roads
to Recovery Conference is scheduled for Monday, October 21st, at the Cleveland Airport Marriot Hotel on West
150th Street. Ms. Ballard noted her excitement about the variety of the 32 workshop sessions planned and briefed
the committee on the various topics offered.



Collaborative Assessment & Management of Suicidality (CAMS) – Ms. Ballard noted that the ADAMHS Board
is often asked to assist with trainings. The CAMS Training is an evidenced-based treatment framework used to
assess suicidality and specifically treat suicide risk. This training consists of three parts: a 3-4 hour, self-paced
online course, an in-person 1 day Role-Play Workshop scheduled for September 4, 2019 at the Cuyahoga County
Community College’s Jerry Sue Thornton Center, and group consultation calls. Upon completion of the role-play
workshop, participants will receive 10 CEU’s. Registration is open now for the 1-day event; the cost is $30.00 and
covers CEUs, lunch and registration.



Great Lakes Conference on Refugee Resilience and Integration: Promising Practices, Emerging Trends
The Refugee Services Collaborative of Greater Cleveland (RSC) is planning its inaugural 2019 RSC Conference
and is recruiting nationally for speakers. The conference is scheduled for November 14 and 15, 2019 and RSC
has asked the ADAMHS Boards to serve as the CEU’s sponsor.



ACES Pilot Project Update - In collaboration with the Cuyahoga County Board of Health and OhioGuidestone,
the Board has been involved in a partnership pilot project called ACES Pilot Project. The Board’s task has been
to be the education arm about the impact of opiate addition on families for several designated communities. The
Health Department chose the areas of Berea and Olmsted Township/Olmsted Falls. In the 1st year of this 2-year
funding initiative, the Board has provided training to law enforcement on ACES and this project. Two trainings
have been delivered to date to Berea Police Department and two more to Olmsted Township and one to Olmsted
Falls Police Department. The training is to help police officers become aware of adverse childhood experiences.
3

 Community Relations & Advocacy Committee Minutes

July 10, 2019

7. Annual Meeting Wrap Up
The ADAMHS Board’s Annual Meeting was held on Monday, May 13th, at the Cleveland Marriott East and featured the
Annual Art Show and the celebration of the ADAMHS Board’s 10th Anniversary. Ms. Zietlow-DeJesus provided the
following statistics: There were 507 attendees; of this number there were 417 paid tickets, 19 client tickets, and 71
Award Winner, Board & Staff free tickets.
Breakdown of Annual Meeting expenses: Marriott Cleveland East - $17,577.66; Give-Aways (note cards, candles) $2,167.99; Client Shuttle - $420.00; Awards - $645.87; Total Cost - $20,811.52.
Net Ticket Sales (after fees) - $15,389.71; Total Cost to Board = $5,421.81
8. Eugene Sopher’s Coloring Pages Discussion
Ms. Scagnetti and Ms. Zietlow-DeJesus shared some coloring pages created by a client named Eugene Sopher. It was
suggested that the pages be compiled into a coloring book and that Mr. Sopher receive a stipend for providing the
artwork. Committee members suggested that the full Board should receive the pages via email for their review.
Committee members were very impressed with the artwork and sentiments on the pages and suggested distributing
these coloring pages/books to group homes, schools and/or hospitals. If possible, it was suggested to distribute pages
at the upcoming Behavioral Health Wellness Fair.
9. Social Media and Media Tracking Reports
▪ Tracking Reports – Ms. Scagnetti provided committee members with an overview of the social media statistics
since the last CR&A Committee meeting. We have added 101 new followers on social media. We posted 278 times
and received 262 messages which is an increase. We had nearly 825,000 impressions, 3,476 engagements and
477 clicks on our links. Fentanyl Alerts were the most popular posts on social media.
▪ The Media/Press Clipping Report from 5/01/19 through 7/09/19 indicated that the ADAMHS Board had a total of
66 media mentions, 65 were positive, 1 neutral and 0 negative. The fentanyl test strip program received a lot of
attention. Our year-to-date media mentions total 154 mentions, 144 considered positive and the other 10 neutral.
Ms. Zietlow-DeJesus reported that she intends to email the Media Report with links to all Board members to keep
them update.
▪ Mr. Osiecki and Ms. Zietlow-DeJesus were featured on Harry Boomer’s show Focus CW, to air on the Sunday
morning show at 6:30 a.m. on Channel 43. Mr. Osiecki commended Beth for the fantastic job she did to convey the
comprehensive information shared on the 30-minute show. It was noted that a link to the televised broadcast will
be sent out to all Board members.
10. Old/New Business
▪ Mr. Larry Smith, Jr., Director of Programs, who began working at the Board on July 8th, was introduced to committee
members.
There being no further business, the meeting adjourned at 5:05 p.m.
Submitted by:

Carol Krajewski, Executive Specialist

Approved by:

Harvey A. Snider, Esq., Community Relations & Advocacy Committee Chair

4

 