THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
INCLUSION & DIVERSITY COMMITTEE MEETING MINUTES
Date: Wednesday, August 8, 2018
Time: 2:00pm – 4:00pm
Place: Board Room – K107
Chair: Ms. Whiting
Trustees: Ms. Whiting, Mr. McDonald
Present: Ms. Belak, Mr. Chadwick, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Kaufmann, Mr. Martucci, Ms. Negrón-McDaniel,
Ms. Rajki, Dr. Kea
MINUTES
The meeting was called to order by Ms. Whiting at 2:00pm.
1. The minutes of the February 14, 2018 were reviewed and approved.
2. Mr. Nevel presented 2018 Enterprise Diversity Goals.
Q2 – 2018 System Diversity Goals Results
System Goal: System Diversity Goals / Metrics include:
o Health Equity Project
o Recruitment/ Reentry Interviews
o Transgender Youth Care Initiative
o Retention/ Mentoring Program
o Provider / Management / Contractor Interviews
o Diverse, Local and Regional Spend
o Campus Transformation Spend
As an organization, the diversity enterprise goals are between the minimum - stretch scores for the
second quarter of 2018. It should be noted that all metrics are trending in a very positive direction.
3. Ms. Negrón-McDaniel presented the Office of Inclusion and Diversity (I&D) Report.
2018 System Diversity Goals
o Health Equity Project - REaL
➢ Race, Ethnicity & Language (REaL) metrics are on pace to exceed stretch goal for
2018 and language data has been collected for 98%+ of patients at all sites.
➢ REaL data collection has provided MHS with better understanding of health
outcomes by race across the system

 ➢ Next Steps:
 Conduct analysis of ACO metrics and apply REaL principles to the analysis
 Develop Health Equity Action Plan for implementation in 2019
 Develop individual provider “Health Equity Dashboards”
 Partner with Quality Institute and Population Health Institute
o Health Equity Project – Transgender Youth Care Focus Groups
➢ To date, 23 individuals have participated in conversations including parents,
caregivers and pediatric patients
➢ A number of emerging themes and challenges have risen since launching this
initiative:
o Patients have an expectation of acceptance
o Preferred name and pronoun is critically important to patients and their
families (Currently there is inconsistent pronoun usage)
o Patients and their families desire a personalized journey using a core care plan
(lack of clarity and uncertainty regarding care plan and next steps contributes
to dissatisfaction and disappointment.
o Training and Development:
➢ Internal training and development for Q2 has been focused on the following topics:
o Courageous Conversations
o New Employee/Resident Orientations
o I&D on LEAP (on-demand) – 60+ modularized learning opportunities
▪ Quality Interactions – Physician created modules on various cultural
competence topics
▪ NOVA
o Awards / Recognition:
➢ 2018 Human Rights Campaign- MetroHealth achieved Health Care Equality Leader
status,scoring 100% in Patient Services and Support; Employee Benefits and Policies;
Nondiscrimination and Staff Training; and LGBTQ Patient and Community
Engagement.
➢ MetroHealth received the Corporate Equality Leader Award from the Human Rights
Campaign Cleveland chapter in August.
o Community Engagement:
➢ Year One Cleveland, Navigating Care Community Sessions, LA Placita, La Villa
Hispana, Transgender Job Fair, Health Equity Summit, WKYC Community Advisory
Council, LifeBanc Meeting with Mt. Sinai Foundation
4. Ms. Belak presented Talent Acquisition.
Reviewed Inclusive Candidate Metrics for Providers and Management - Interviews and
Hires
o Reviewed Leadership Racial Diversity Composition by Title
o Reviewed 2nd Chance Interviews (62 interviews with 23 hires). These interviews have
resulted in 2nd chance opportunities for individuals to secure jobs in multiple departments
including Environmental Services, Nursing, and Information Services.
o Best in Class Quality Connections
➢ Established a Steering Committee
➢ Developed the BIC Q˟ Program
➢ Identified the first cohort mentor/mentee matches: 56 participants in Q2 2018
o

 5. Mr. Martucci presented Supplier Diversity.
o Presented Q2 2018 Baseline and Local/Regional Spend Trend: at 49% (minimum)
o Presented Baseline and Diverse Spend Trend:
➢ Q2 2018: Spend trend is at 11% (we are at stretch for this goal)
o Vendor Classifications we are tracking:
➢ Small Business Enterprise (SBE)
➢ Minority Business Enterprise (MBE)
➢ Women’s Business Enterprise (WBE)
➢ Veteran’s Business Enterprise (VBE)
➢ Service Disabled Veteran Business Enterprise (SDVBE)
➢ Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Business Enterprise (LGBTBE)
o Presented Diverse Vendor Trends;
➢ Q2 2018: 199 vendors (7% were diverse)
6. Mr. Jones presented Q2 2018 Transformation Diverse Spend.
Meeting adjourned at 4:05pm
The next BOT meeting is scheduled TBD
Respectfully submitted by Alan K. Nevel

 