THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
FACILITIES & SPACE COMMITTEE
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES

DATE:

Monday, September 23, 2019

TIME:

4:00 p.m.

PLACE:

MetroHealth Medical Center
K107, Business Services Building

COMMITTEE
TRUSTEES:

Mr. Monnolly, Mr. McDonald, Ms. Dee, Ms. Whiting, Ms. Anderson

STAFF:

W. Jones, J. Platten, S. Rajki, K. Dethloff

(ABSENT):

A. Boutros, C. Richmond, Dr. Brandt, B. Boulanger, M. Stern, J. Jacono

GUEST:

Marvin Daniels

Mr. Monnolly called the regular meeting of the Facilities & Space Committee to order at 4:00 p.m.
The minutes are written in a format conforming to the printed meeting agenda for the convenience of
correlation, recognizing that some of the items were discussed out of sequence.
I.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES – JULY 22, 2019 MEETING
The minutes of the July 22, 2019 Facilities and Space Committee were approved as presented.

II.

DISCUSSION ITEMS
A. Ms. Dethloff provided an update on the status of the Facilities Report to the Board.
To date there have been approximately 97 major utilities interruptions. There have been
several power outages that occurred during the last two months, including several generator
starts due to malfunctioning equipment; all failures have been identified and repaired. Two
generators at MHMC and one chiller required refurbishing. Due to a failed insulator on
CEI’s equipment feeding the east side of the MHMC, the FM team coordinated a full shut
down of all normal power to 14 buildings allowing CEI to complete repairs. FM staff
worked diligently to determine how to reroute internal water lines to support a fire pump
when an exterior water line relocation work threatened to shut of water to an existing fire
pump for an extended period. This effort allowed new hospital construction crews to shut
down and reroute exterior water lines out of the way of new hospital support caissons
without impacting critical fire protection equipment.
B. Mr. Jones provided a progress report update on the Campus Transformation Project. On
the design phase of the project, 100% of the Construction Document (CD) is now

complete and the Architectural Supplemental documentation/final bidding is
underway. Installation of site utilities improvements and View Road improvements
scope of work are 90% overall complete. The View Road site lighting design is

 Facilities & Space Committee
September 23, 2019 Meeting Minutes

complete. Erecting of the tower crane began on August 7 th. Concrete Stair Tower
A (west) & C (east) began along with the concrete of Core B (main elevators/stairs)
began approximately on August 20 th. Hospital/CUP caisson scope is nearly
complete (only 20 remain) and the concrete elevator and stair towers are currently
under construction. Earthwork, site improvements, caisson drilling is on schedule.
City permits approval for all critical phases of work continues to meet scheduled
milestones. Coordination work with CEI is continuing and on schedule. Steel
framing for the new CUP is in progress and on schedule.
Mr. Jones informed the board that the amendments to the Mitchell Planning
contract will be approved during the September 25 th Board session. The scope of
services includes site security design for Phase 2 of the Campus Transformation
Program. And, the GMP Package C will be presented at the next Board meeting in
September.
III.

CONSENT ITEMS
A. Recommendation to the President and CEO of The MetroHealth System to approve the
further amended Agreement with Turner Construction Company as the Construction
Manager At Risk for Campus Transformation and Set the Guaranteed Maximum Price for
Phase C.
The Committee approved the recommendation for full Board action.
B. Recommendation to the President and CEO of The MetroHealth System to approve the
further amended Agreement for Medical Equipment Planning, Audio/Visual, Technology
and Security Consulting Services with Mitchell Planning Associates for the Campus
Transformation Project.
The Committee approved the recommendation for full Board action.
C. Recommendation to the President and CEO of The MetroHealth System to approve the
selection of Pre-Authorized Owner’s Representatives on a Task Order Basis.
The Committee approved the recommendation for full Board action.

IV.

NON-CONSENT / ACTION ITEMS
None

There being no further business to come before the Committee, the meeting was adjourned at 4:45 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,

Walter B. Jones, Jr.
Senior Vice President, Campus Transformation

 