GATEWAY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION OF GREATER CLEVELAND
Minutes of a Meeting of the
Board of Trustees
Held on August 26, 2015
3:00 o'clock p.m.
Offices of
Climaco, Wilcox, Peca, Tarantino & Garofoli Co., L.P.A.
Cleveland, Ohio

There being a quorum present, Mr. Offtermatt called the meeting to
order at approximately 3:10 p.m. Board members Timothy Offtermatt,
Matt Carroll, Tracey Nichols and William Reidy were present. Board
member Emmanuel Glover was absent. Also present were Todd Greathouse,
Brian Kelly, and Daniella Nunnally of Gateway, and Dennis Wilcox,
General Counsel.
Present from the Cleveland Indians were Dennis
Lehman, Joseph Znidarsic and Andrew Miller.
William Tarter was
present from the public.
The first item of business was approval of the Minutes. Upon motion
by Mr. Reidy, seconded by Ms. Nichols, the Minutes of the August 12,
2015 meeting were unanimously approved.
Mr. Offtermatt then asked for any public comment.
Mr. Tarter
commented thanking the staff of the Indians and Gateway for answering
questions he had about the improvements to the Ballpark.
The Board next considered the Executive Director’s report. Mr.
Greathouse first reported on the field lights at Progressive Field
and distributed a lighting survey to the Board. He reported that
Major League Baseball continually monitors the field lighting and
there are approximately 674 field light fixtures. They are working
on correcting any lenses which may need fixing. An Osborne study
indicated that the lighting system was losing 30% of its capacity
through the lenses. In addition, a GE study indicated there was a
14% reduction in lighting through capacitors. There was a question
from Ms. Nichols whether the cleaning of the lenses would improve
efficiency. Mr. Greathouse indicated lenses were cleaned several
years ago, but with only a slight improvement. At this time Gateway
and the Indians are reaching out to GE regarding the lenses and
capacitors, but are also looking at the possibility of putting in LED
lighting. At this point they are looking at pricing alternatives.
Ms. Nichols asked if this could turn into a Major Capital repair
because of the amount of the project. Mr. Greathouse said it was

 possible, however, there is no particular deadline for the work at
this time. Normally this has fallen under routine maintenance or nonMajor Capital in the past.
Mr. Greathouse then reported on the elevators and the escalators in
the Ballpark. He noted there are 11 elevator banks and some of these
need to have replacement of drivers and at this time they were having
difficulty finding parts for these particular elevators. These
repairs or replacements could be up to $260,000.
Mr. Offtermatt
asked if we are replacing the component will we need to replace the
entire system. Mr. Greathouse indicated that would not be the case.
He also reported that there are 2 escalators that are inside
escalators being used outside, but they have been well maintained and
repaired since opening day in 1994.
This year the Indians are
putting in 50 replacement steps for approximately $58,000 and this
will be done in 2016 to extend the useful life of the escalators.
Mr. Greathouse then turned the Board’s attention to
Alterations/Improvements that were presented to the
meeting by the Cleveland Indians. After further
motion made by Mr. Carroll which was seconded by
Board unanimously adopted the following resolution

Phase II Ballpark
Board at the last
discussion, upon
Ms. Nichols, the
by a 4-0 vote.

RESOLUTION NO. 2015-3
AUTHORIZING AND APPROVING AGREEMENT
WITH RESPECT TO ALTERATIONS
BETWEEN GATEWAY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION OF GREATER CLEVELAND AND
CLEVELAND INDIANS BASEBALL COMPANY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
WHEREAS, Gateway Economic Development Corporation of Greater
Cleveland (“Gateway”) has entered into a Lease Agreement dated as of
September 15, 2008
with the Cleveland Indians Baseball Company
Limited Partnership (the “Indians”), respecting the Major League
Baseball Park known as Progressive Field (the “Ballpark”) which was
amended by a First Amendment to the Lease dated September 15, 2014
(together, the “Lease”); and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Lease, the Indians have submitted a
request for approval of alterations to the Ballpark (the “2015
Alterations”) as presented to the Board at its August 12, 2015 Board
Meeting; and as described in an Agreement between Gateway and the
Indians, a form of which is on file with Gateway (the “Agreement”).
WHEREAS, the Board desires to authorize and approve the
Agreement and actions to be taken thereunder, including to enter into
a Design-Build Contract for the Alterations.
NOW, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Trustees of Gateway, on
behalf of Gateway, hereby authorizes and approves the Agreement and
Design-Build Contract.
2

 FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Chair or Secretary or any other
officer of Gateway are authorized to enter into the Agreement,
substantially in the form on file and a Design-Build Contract by and
among Gateway, the Indians and Gilbane Building Company substantially
in form previously utilized for the 2014 Ballpark Alterations and, in
each case, with such changes as are not materially adverse to Gateway
and which are consistent with this Resolution, as such officer or
officers executing the same in their, his or her judgment deem
necessary or appropriate in connection therewith, which execution
shall constitute conclusive evidence as of the approval and
authorization thereof by Gateway.
FURTHER BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that the Chair or Secretary or
any officer of Gateway are each authorized to carry out the
transactions set forth in the Agreement and Design-Build Contract,
provided such actions are consistent with this Resolution and not
materially adverse to Gateway.
_________________
Mr. Kelly then gave the financial report.
He first reviewed the
operating account which had a balance on July 1, 2015 of $49,677,
with total receipts during July of $1,083,040, which included payment
for real estate taxes. Cash disbursements where $1,023,749 and the
Operating Account had an ending balance of $108,969.
Mr. Kelly next reviewed the Ballpark Capital Account which had a
beginning balance of $88,857 on July 1st with $127,875 of total
receipts during July, and expenditures of $143,172 for an ending
balance of $73,560.
Next, he reviewed the forecast from August 1st through October 31st,
with a beginning balance being $108,969. Projected revenues were
$621,921, for total available funds of $730,090 and proposed
disbursements of $620,583, for a ending balance of $110,307 projected
as of October 31st.
Mr. Kelly then reviewed the receipts and disbursements for various
accounts beginning with the Progressive Field Alteration Account for
the period from September 1, 2014 through July 31, 2015. There have
been total receipts in this account of $26,259,756.86 and total
disbursements of $23,255,011.59 leaving an ending balance as of July
31, 2015 of $3,004,095.27.
He then reviewed the Major Capital Account for the Ballpark from
January 1, through July 31, 2015 which had total receipts and
expenditures of $246,627.14.
He next reviewed the Quicken Loans Arena Major Capital Accounts which
had total receipts of $15,122,270.20 and total disbursements of the
same amount for a beginning and ending balance of $250. He also
3

 reviewed the levels of completion of each project. The only project
being 100% complete was the Parsons Sound System project. After some
question from the Board and discussion, it was agreed that Parsons
and/or the Cavs should provide a completion certificate for this
work.
Mr. Kelly then reported that the
accepted as unmodified as of July
comments and the audit is now on the
was had of distribution of the same
on.

audit had
7, 2015,
Auditor’s
which Mr.

been completed and
with no management
website. Discussion
Kelly will follow up

The Board next discussed the next meeting, which is scheduled for
November 18, 2015. Ms. Nichols indicated she would be out of town at
that time.
There being no further business before the Board, upon motion by Mr.
Carroll and seconded by Ms. Nichols, the meeting was adjourned at
3:35 p.m.

APPROVED BY:
SECRETARY-TREASURER
_________________________

4

 