Summit County Opiate Task Force
Key Stakeholders Annual Meeting
Summit County Public Health Auditorium
1867 W. Market St. Suite A, Akron

MEETING NOTES 9/13/2017
ATTENDEES:
75 Community Stakeholders were in attendance.
MEETING MATERIALS:
The following meeting materials were distributed: Agenda, Meeting Notes from June 7, 2017, Data
Dashboard Handouts, Hudson Library Educational Series schedule, Cleveland Clinic Akron General
Heroin, Fentanyl, Carfentanil: The Triple Threat on our Doorstep flyer, Safe Station Assessment
Guidelines, Nar-Anon flyer and group list, 2/16/17 Akron Beacon Journal Dear Abby, Deterra Project
Survey Data flyer, Addiction Resource Guide.
WELCOME AND INTRODUCTIONS:
Jerry Craig, Executive Director of the County of Summit ADM Board welcomed all participants, and
expressed his gratitude to everyone for their help in making an impact on the opiate epidemic.
GENERAL UPDATES:
•

Federal- 21st Century Cures ACT Funding from OhioMHAS & AG Office: Mr. Craig
indicated Summit County is a Tier One county due to the high rate of overdoses and deaths.
The federal Cures Act Funding that was awarded will go towards an additional five beds,
which have been requested from IBH to increase capacity, bringing the total to 25. Funds for
Recovery Coaching will also help people get into treatment and sustain recovery. Mr. Craig
thanked Aimee Wade, Associate Director of Clinical Services with the County of Summit ADM
Board for taking part in the process for Cures Act funding.

•

State-wide: Mr. Craig announced that the State Budget was signed in July with threats to
Medicaid expansion. An allocation of $75,000 went to ADM Boards to address the opioid
epidemic. Captured in the budget bill is language that establishes Boards to act as the “hub”
for each county’s opiate initiatives. County of Summit ADM Board staff are working with the
Board Association to get an aggregate of meaningful data that all counties will collect.
Funding in the amount of $45, 000 will go towards operating costs of Recovery Housing, and
some funding was also made available to establish regional detox Centers

•

United Way & Local Initiative Updates: Mr. Craig indicated the ADM Addiction Help Line
(330-940-1133) recently added Summit Psychological Associates and Summa, bringing the
Help Line up to eight agencies including: Akron UMADAOP; Community Health Center; Edwin

Mission: The Summit County Opiate Task Force is a group of key individuals and organizations committed to
reducing the tragic consequences of opiate abuse in Summit County through education, collaboration, and the wise
use of available resources.

 Shaw; Greenleaf Family Center; Mature Services; Oriana House; and Summit County Public
Health. He also noted there are currently 10 QRT teams, with more gradually being added.
•

Dave Rich, Director, Community Health from United Way announced that United Way is
accepting RFPs for their first phase of the Bold Goal and Basic Needs funding, which includes
Bold Goal 4: Addiction Prevention and Recovery. The submission deadline is September 15,
2017 at 11:59 pm. Mr. Rich made his contact information available and encouraged everyone
to apply for the funding.

DATA DASHBOARD: Mr. Craig presented the findings of the September 13, 2017 Data Dashboard.
•
•
•
•
•
•

•

•
•

•

Mr. Craig reviewed the findings of the 2017 vs. 2016 Drug Overdoses, including carfentanil
being the cause of the influx of overdoes in July, 2016. The county data shows six overdoses
per day in August and seven per day in September.
The official count for total drug overdose deaths from January 1, 2017 to September 6, 2017 is
104; 92 were Summit County residents, 10 were out of county residents and two were out of
state residents.
The official total drug overdose deaths that occurred in 2016 in Summit county as of
September 6, 2017 is 336; 298 were Summit County residents, 30 were out of county
residents and eight were out of state residents.
The Ohio Automated Rx Reporting System (OARRS) Report showed there was a reduction by
four opioid doses dispensed per capita to Ohio patients from the first quarter of 2015 though
the 4th quarter of 2016.
The total number of pounds of medication incinerated through the D.U.M.P. box disposal
sites went up to 8159 in 2016 from 7404 in 2015. So far in 2017, 5799 pounds of medication
have been destroyed. This does not include numbers from the Deterra program.
The number of DAWN kits dispensed have been going up from year to year. In 2015, 524
received overdose education and 354 DAWN kits were dispensed; in 2016 808 received
overdose education and 621 received a DAWN kit; so far in 2017 243 received overdose
education and 497 received a DAWN kit. It is believed that people are becoming more aware
of the program and taking advantage of it.
Detox wait times have gone down from 13 days in the last quarter of 2016 to 3 days for
female beds in the second quarter of 2017; and from 12 days in the first quarter of 2015 to 1
day in the second quarter of 2017. The wait time has gone down since opening up the
additional ten beds at Oriana House.
The current wait time for residential services is 60 days for males and 37 days for females. It
was noted that the Board made a significant contribution to bringing the wait list time down
and it is expected to see more of a reduction in wait time.
There are now nine Quick Response Teams (QRT) in place throughout Summit County
including: Cuyahoga Falls, Green, Barberton/Norton, Tallmadge, Stow, Akron, Monroe Falls,
Coventry and Hudson. It is hoped that more CURES Act funding will become available to
expand QRT into more communities.
A total of 429 clients have been seen by QRT since January 1, 2017, and 128 of those clients
have engaged in AoD treatment, QRT also talks to family members who often need
treatment as well and are offered treatment resources.

Mission: The Summit County Opiate Task Force is a group of key individuals and organizations committed to
reducing the tragic consequences of opiate abuse in Summit County through education, collaboration, and the wise
use of available resources.

 COMMITTEE REPORTS:
•

Policy-Advocacy: Mairin Mancino, Advocacy Director with Summa Health and Greg
McNeil, President of Cover2 Resources thanked everyone who participated in the call in,
fax and email campaign urging Senator Portman to not approve the repeal of the
Affordable Care Act without an acceptable replacement. Mr. McNeil further explained
that President Trump’s Opioid Commission released a draft report recommending that a
federal emergency be declared for the opioid crisis. A final report from the Commission is
expected in October. A letter has been drafted urging the President to not lose sight of
the crisis by requesting a federal declaration. This letter will be emailed to Opiate Task
Force members so that interested parties have an opportunity to be represented. It was
noted that there has been hesitancy by Governor Kasich to declare an emergency
however; to date, six states have declared an emergency. Mr. McNeil requested that
everyone go to Cover2Resources.org for more information and to see podcasts further
discussing the topic.

•

Family Supports: Michael Cohen, chair of the Families subcommittee, mentioned ABC
News came to Akron to interview Frank Marr’s daughter-in-law for a piece they will be
airing. He also mentioned the Ohio Association of County Behavioral Health Authorities’
Ohio 2017 Recovery Conference took place on September 11th and 12th. Jerry Craig,
Deanna England from Oriana House and Shelly Borstein served as panelists for a
breakout session entitled, What Families Need. It was also announced that there was a
recent Community Reinforcement and Family Training (CRAFT) training on August 28-30
on how to communicate with loved ones on their journey through addiction. Mr. Cohen
also invited everyone to attend a Nar-Anon meeting for any families that need support.

•

Public Awareness: Darryl Brake, Executive Director of Community Partnership of Summit
County and Chair of the Public Awareness Committee, announced there would be a
Speakers’ Bureau training on Monday, Sept 18th 4:30pm. ?
o

o
o

•

The Cleveland Clinic Akron General Heroin, Fentanyl, Carfentanil: The Triple
Threat on our Doorstep opiate program will take place on September 20 from
5:00-7:30 PM at Barberton High School. A flyer for the event was distributed. For
more information about the event, OTF members were asked to contact Mary
Alice Sonnhalter.
Resource Guides were offered to anyone needing them for distribution.
Mr. Brake noted that August 31st was National Overdose Awareness Day, which
was also the one year anniversary when Deterra bags began being distributed in
Summit County. To date, more than 40 community organizations have come
together to distribute 40,000 pouches and educational information about safe
medicine usage and disposal.

Criminal Justice: Detective Keith Heilmeier with the Summa Health Police Department
indicated overdose data is being collected. He also mentioned the National Drug Take
Back Day is on October 28th and the Summa Meds to Beds Program. Operation Street
Smart is scheduled for October 25th and registration is available through the ADM Board’s

Mission: The Summit County Opiate Task Force is a group of key individuals and organizations committed to
reducing the tragic consequences of opiate abuse in Summit County through education, collaboration, and the wise
use of available resources.

 webpage. The next Criminal Justice subcommittee meeting is scheduled on November
14th at Juvenile Court.
•

Healthcare: Dana Nelson, Administrative Director, Maternal Fetal Medicine at Akron
Children’s Hospital reported that new legislation is being introduced to limit opioid
supplies to five days for children and seven days for adults. More students and residents
are coming into the field, and progress has been made, but there are still gaps in
residential services. She also gave a personal account of seeing babies being born in
withdrawal from the Mother’s opiate use. Upcoming meetings include the 4th Annual
Current Concepts in Integrated Healthcare at Northeast Ohio Medical University on
November 4th from 7:00 am – 4:30 pm. Ticket information can be found here. The next
meeting of the Healthcare subcommittee will be on November 16th at 2:00 pm at the
Considine Building.

•

Youth & Young Adults: Co-chairs, Katy Van Horn and Nicole Ast were not able to be
present, therefore Beth Kuckuck, Children’s Program Coordinator with the County of
Summit ADM Board provided a brief update for the subcommittee. Ms. Kuckuck
explained how the group is supporting young people in recovery, including creating a
vision and mission to create a sober high school. System mapping of supports is taking
place and the group is looking at strengths and gaps. The group plans on talking to youth
from Community Health Center to get them more involved. The next meeting date is to
be determined. It was also noted that the Kids Month Symposium, which was an all-day
event, was very we received.

GENERAL ANNOUNCMENTS & UPCOMING EVENTS:
• Save the Date – October 25 – Operation Street Smart
Committee Schedules:
• Healthcare Committee - TBD
• Criminal Justice - November 14th, 2017 from 2:30pm – 4pm @ SC Juvenile Court
• Public Awareness- TBD
• Young People in Recovery – October 2nd 3:30pm
• Families – TBD
• Policy & Advocacy Committee – TBD
• Speakers’ Bureau Training – Sept 18th 4:30pm. Please contact Lucky Tisch at 330-564-4057 to
be registered for the next training at the ADM Board offices (1867 W. Market Street, Suite
B2, Akron).

NEXT MEETING: Wednesday, December 13, 2017 at 4:00 pm, in the Summit County Public Health
Auditorium (1867 W. Market St., Akron 44313)

Mission: The Summit County Opiate Task Force is a group of key individuals and organizations committed to
reducing the tragic consequences of opiate abuse in Summit County through education, collaboration, and the wise
use of available resources.

 