MINUTES

CLEVELAND-CUYAHOGA COUNTY PORT AUTHORITY
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING

Thursday, May 9, 2019

The regular Meeting of the Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority Board of Directors was held at the
Port of Cleveland Conference Center, 1 mo W. Street Suite 100, Cleveland, Ohio on Thursday, May
9, 2019. The meeting was called to order by Vice?Chair Roller at 8:33 a.m. Attendance by roll call showed

the following:

PRESENT TELEPHONE
Jan Roller, Chair

Pat Ramsey, Vice, Chair

Harriett Applegate, Secretary

J. Stefan Holmes

Paul Hoogenboom

Darrell McNair

Robert Smith

David Wondolowski

ALSO PRESENT
W. Friedman, President CEO
D. Gutheil, Chief Commercial Officer
C. Naso, ChiefFinancial Officer
M. Rivalsky, Controller
R. Snipes, Senior Accountant
L. Bohinc, Finance Coordinator
M. Freilino, Manager, Executive Administrative Operations
R. Bever, Director of Finance
G. Woodson, Director, Development Finance Inclusion
L. Sternheimer, Director, Urban Planning Engagement
J. Davis, VP, External Affairs
D. Wilcox, Climaco, Wilcox, Peca, Garofoli L.P.A
P. Ritzert, Climaco, Wilcox, Peca, Garofoli Co., L.P.A
N. Puzzuoli, Shark Minnow
D. Bernar, Shark Minnow
B. Midlik, Stark Enterprises
S. Ryzner, Stark Enterprises
R. Hayes, Stark Enterprises
D. Dietrich, Cleveland Construction
F. Lamb, Zions Bank
J. Baker, J11. 
K. PMC
G. USACE
T. lmbrie, Pentrust
J. Noland, Pentrust

ABSENT EXCUSED
Chris Ronayne

5.09.2019 Board Meeting Minutes
Adopted 06.13.2019

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
The minutes of the Board ofDirectors meeting of March 7, 2019 were presented for approval by
the Board, copies having been delivered in advance to all Directors. On motion by Director
Hoogenboom, seconded by Director Ramsey, and unanimously carried, the Board minutes of
March 7, 2019 were approved.

 

PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD
Chair Roller then opened the floor for public comment related to agenda items. There being no
public comment, she proceeded with the agenda.

 

COMMENTS

Chair Roller addressed the Board of Directors and expressed her excitement in serving as Board
Chair. Chair Roller noted she attended the Great Lakes Economic Forum and the sessions and
speakers were very impressive. Attendees included individuals from Canada, Japan, Columbia
and the United States to name a few. They addressed infrastructure, climate change, trade balance,
NAFTA and the United States Mexico Canada Agreement (U SMCA). Representatives were. very
positive about economic development in the Great Lakes. Chair Roller then congratulated Director
Smith on his appointment to the obsOhio Board of Directors. Chair Roller advised that Director
McNair will acquire her role as Chair of the Real Estate Development Finance Committee.
Chair Roller noted that alter the regular Committee reports, the Board would assemble into ad-hoc
committees for additional discussion. The ad?hoc committees were properly noticed and open to
the public.

 

COMMENTS

Mr. Friedman addressed the Board and thanked Chair Roller for attending the Great Lakes
Economic Forum. He noted that it?s organized by the Council of the Great Lakes Region and this
year Port ofCleveland was the host and sponsor. The mission of the council is to create a forum
where all parties from the Great Lakes can meet and discuss strategies to position the Great Lakes
region for the future. Mr. Friedman stated that the Green Marine Green Tech Conference will be
hosted in Cleveland on June 5?7, 2019. The focus will be on how Ports and related parties can
make the maritime industry more sustainable.

 

MARITIME COMMITTEE
Agenda Item 4 (C) (1)07) Flotsam Jetsam Update

 

Mr. Jared Magyar addressed the Board of Directors and referred to a presentation attached hereto
as ?Exhibit Referring to Exhibit A (slide 8), Director Ramsey asked whether the Downtown
Cleveland Alliance (DCA) provides training. Mr. Magyar replied yes, the positions on Flotsam
and Jetsam are specialized. There is a training program and a requirement that they?ve been
employed by DCA for at least three years. Director Applegate suggested keeping the boats very
involved in public events and accessible to the public. Chairwoman Roller asked about the hours
of operation for the boats. Mr. Magyar replied they begin working in early June, Monday through
Friday, 8 hours per day. Director Applegate asked how far the boats travel to provide clean?up.
Mr. Magyar replied that all 7 miles of the river are services and NorthCoast Harbor near the Rock
and Roll Hall of Fame Museum. Director Ramsey asked how the debris is disposed. Mr.

ls.)

5.09.2019 Board Meeting Minutes
Adopted 06.13.2019

grandfathering of the project since the potential fees of the project were discussion and
communicated previously. Director Holmes asked about the projected timeline for the project.
Ms. Hedges replied they expect to close the ?nancing on the project in September and begin
construction. She noted that Friedlander must be out of their space by date certain, and if
construction doesn?t begin on time, they will no longer be a part of the project. Director Holmes
asked what amount of space riedlander has committed to. Ms. Hedges replied approximately 9
floors, which is ?fty percent. Stark would occupy one ?oor with of?ces.

Director McNair asked Mr. Midlik to elaborate on the capital stack and asked how much public
funding is included. Mr. Midlik replied the City will provide $12 million in forgivable loans in
addition to the non-school TIFF and real estate tax abatement; port bond issuance is projected to
be approximately $28?$29 million. in addition, the County is looking to provide $6 million, also
forgivable. JobsOhio has provided an offer of grants and loans which are still being ?nalized.
There is also a low interest loan structure provided by the State of Ohio. Director McNair asked
what the gap is with prevailing wage. Mr. Midlik replied the gap is being projected as an $8
million cost increase. Director McNair asked how many Starck projects are prevailing wage. Ms.
Hedges replied approximately 90% and the Fannie Lewis laws are followed. Chairwoman Roller
asked how much the bond request will be. Mr. Midlik stated that it would be approximately $10
million with bond fund using conduit structure. Chairwoman Roller also asked Starck to provide
details on their community bene?ts package. Ms. Hedges replied that she would provide the
information. Director Holmes requested to see the capital stack proposal and asked when the
original application for the project was submitted. Mr. Midlik said he would be happy to share
the numbers privately. Mr. Naso replied it was approximately 2014-2015. Director Ramsey asked
where the interns will be from. Ms. Hedges replied it will be students within the City of Cleveland
who have an interest in architecture and/or construction management.

PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Greg with the USACE of?ce in Cleveland addressed the Board.

There being no public comment, on motion by Director Hoogenboom, seconded by Director
Wondolowski, and unanimously carried, the meeting was adjourned at 10:20 am.

