THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
FACILITIES & SPACE COMMITTEE
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES

DATE:

Monday, July 23, 2018

TIME:

4:00 p.m.

PLACE:

MetroHealth Medical Center
K107, Business Services Building

COMMITTEE
TRUSTEES:

Mr. Monnolly, Ms. Dee, Mr. Silvers, Mr. McDonald

STAFF:

W. Jones, C. Richmond, B. Boulanger, Dr. Brandt, M. Stern, K. Dethloff

(ABSENT):

A. Boutros, M. Phillips, K. Botros

GUESTS:

Sarah O’Keeffe, Andreanna Sims, Rodney Elgie, Marvin Daniels

Mr. Monnolly called the regular meeting of the Facilities & Space Committee to order at 4:05 p.m. The
minutes are written in a format conforming to the printed meeting agenda for the convenience of
correlation, recognizing that some of the items were discussed out of sequence.
I.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES – MAY 21, 2018 MEETING
The minutes of the May 21, 2018 Facilities and Space Committee were approved as presented.

II.

DISCUSSION ITEMS
Mr. Jones introduced Mr. Rodney Elgie, Director of Planning, Design and Construction to the
Board.
A. Mr. Jones provided an update on the status of the Campus Transformation project to the
Board. Concrete work was completed on all seven floors of the View Road Parking
Garage. Painting of the deck’s underside is in process along with installation of lighting,
elevator rails and door frames. Final completion date is scheduled for September 21st. The
garage will open in October.
Mr. Jones informed the Board that the proposal for the MetroHealth rezoning map change
2581 was approved on July 17, 2018. The construction of View Road began in July.
Demolition of the South Garage will begin in October and the construction of the new
hospital will begin in November/December.

Page 1 of 2

 Facilities & Space Committee
July 23, 2018 Meeting Minutes

Page 2 of 3
B. Ms. Dethloff provided an update on the status of the Facilities Report to the Board.
Ms. Dethloff reported on a city water main break at the Cleveland Heights which caused a
water outage at both buildings for several hours. Cleveland Heights also experienced a
power outage due to a tree that fell onto a CEI substation. Middleburg Heights Health
Center had several elevator and emergency lighting issues. Brecksville and OBC had a
power outage and Parma experienced minor AC issues. Repairs from the flood reported
two months ago were completed.
Facilities staff and outside contractors continue to work on issues found from the life safety
audit. The Facilities Department reported on the following to date for 2018: (1) completed
93 projects with another 71 projects in the process; (2) initiated 49 capital projects and 10
projects in development.
At the main hospital, an 8” water line to the boiler plant and laundry ruptured twice during
construction activities causing the project team to reroute the water line before installing
the new road over it. The 100+ year old steam tunnel was found to require additional
structural support, as it runs under this road.
C. Ms. O’Keeffe provided an update on the status of Sustainability at six months to the Board.
The Environmental Sustainability vision goal for MetroHealth as a core value is to increase
operational efficiency and support an environmentally sustainable system that improves the
health of patients, staff and the community. A Sustainability webpage was created on the
MIV. Ms. O’Keeffe discussed the several types of components of the Sustainable
Healthcare Strategy. The Sustainability Advisory Council was formed, and the first
meeting is scheduled on July 30th. There were two “Zero Waste” events that have taken
place: 1) Advanced Practice Providers Conference and 2) Turner Construction Supplier
Diversity Recruitment event. Less Waste began at Brooklyn Heights and the Center for
Campus Transformation by replacing personal waste bins with recycling bins. Disposable
coffee cups were replaced with reusable cups which were provided to staff members.
MetroHealth is targeting and seeking LEED (v.0) Silver in the current design of the new
hospital. We are also considering WELL (v.2) certification and EcoDistricts certification.
Ms. O’Keeffe provided an overview on the Cuyahoga County Community GHG Emissions
Inventory. Ms. O’Keeffe also mentioned on the different ways of employee commuting
events; “Bike to Work Day” held on May 18th and “Gohio Commute Challenge” held in
June. MetroHealth was asked to team up with Cuyahoga County to do an aggregate solar
program. The goal is one+ mega-watt of solar power on different buildings across the
county.
III.

CONSENT ITEMS
A. Recommendation to the President and CEO of The MetroHealth System to approve the
amended agreement with Turner Construction Company as the Construction Manager at
Risk for the Campus Transformation project (the “Project”). The total fees for this
additional work shall not exceed $782,314, to be paid out of capital funds previously
approved through Board Resolution 19088.
The Committee approved the recommendation for full Board action.

 Facilities & Space Committee
July 23, 2018 Meeting Minutes

Page 3 of 3

B. Recommendation to the President and CEO of The MetroHealth System to approve the
lease of space to Establish a Community-Based Outpatient Care Location.
The Committee approved the recommendation for full Board action.
C. Recommendation to the President and CEO of The MetroHealth System to approve the
amended agreement with HGA Architects and Engineers, LLC (HGA) for architectural
and engineering design services for the Campus Transformation project. The total fees for
this additional work shall not exceed $634,018. The funding source is as previously
approved through Board Resolution 19088.
The Committee approved the recommendation for the total cost
associated with material testing services for the Project estimated at
$1,100,000 - $1,300,000, not to exceed $1,500,000 for full Board action.

Upon unanimous roll call vote, the Committee went into Executive Session to discuss trade
secrets and real estate matters.
At the end of the executive session, the Committee reconvened the meeting in open session at
5:25 p.m.
IV.

NON-CONSENT / ACTION ITEMS
None

There being no further business to come before the Committee, the meeting was adjourned at 5:30 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,

Walter B. Jones, Jr.
Senior Vice President, Campus Transformation

 