BOARD OF TRUSTEES
The MetroHealth System

Date:

September 26, 2018

Time:

8:00 a.m.

Place:

The MetroHealth System Board Room

Present:

Ms. Anderson, Ms. Dee, Mr. Hurwitz, Mr. McDonald, Mr. Monnolly, Dr. Silvers,
Ms. Whiting

Staff:

Dr. Boutros, Mr. Botros, Dr. Boulanger, Ms. Brown, Dr. Chehade, Ms. Kline, Mr. Phillips,
Ms. Platten, Mr. Richmond, Mr. Stern, Ms. Wahl, Dr. Watts, Dr. Werner

Guests:

Mr. Brian M. O’Neill, Chair, Board of Directors, The MetroHealth Foundation;
Dr. Patricia Thomas, Vice Dean of Medical Education, Case Western Reserve University
School of Medicine

MINUTES OF MEETING
The meeting was called to order by Mr. McDonald at 8:10 a.m. Mr. McDonald noted that there were only
five Trustees present in person and that Mr. Monnolly had just joined via telephone. Mr. Monnolly
indicated that he would join the meeting in person but would participate via telephone until he arrived at
the Board Room.
(The minutes are written in a format conforming to the printed meeting agenda for the convenience of
correlation, recognizing that some of the items were discussed out of sequence.)
1.

Minutes
The Board approved the Minutes of the Regular Meeting of July 25, 2018. RESOLUTION 19220.

2.

Consent Agenda
A.

Audit and Compliance Committee - None

B.

Community Engagement Committee – No Meeting

C.

Diversity Committee – None

D.

Executive Committee - None

E.

Facilities and Space Committee
1. The Board unanimously approved the further amendment of the agreement with
Osborn Engineering to provide additional executive engineering services for the
Campus Transformation Project. The total fees for this additional work shall not
exceed $4,038,135 for a total amended fee amount not to exceed $13,245,163 to be
paid out of capital funds previously approved through Board Resolution 19088.
RESOLUTION 19221.
2. The Board unanimously approved the further amendment of the agreement with
HGA Architects and Engineers, LLC to provide additional architectural and
engineering services for the Campus Transformation Project. The total fees for this

 additional work shall not exceed $804,729, for a total amended fee amount not to
exceed $31,792,953 to be paid out of capital funds previously approved through
Board Resolution 19088. RESOLUTION 19222.
3. The Board unanimously approved a lease of space for outpatient clinical operations
as more fully described in Attachment A. RESOLUTION 19223.
4. The Board unanimously approved the purchase of General Liability and Workers
Compensation/Employer’s Liability insurance for the policy period of November 1,
2018, through November 1, 2023, through: (1) a primary policy with Liberty Mutual
Insurance Company for a premium not to exceed $1,916,855 (with limits of
$2,000,000 per occurrence and $4,000,000 annual aggregate for general liability and
$1,000,000 for worker’s compensation/employer’s liability); and (2) an excess liability
policy(ies) for a premium not to exceed $1,900,000 (with limits of $150,000,000), to
be paid out of capital funds previously approved through Board Resolution #19088.
RESOLUTION 19224.
5. The Board unanimously approved the purchase of Environmental Liability Insurance
from Aspen Specialty Insurance Company with limits of $25,000,000 per incident for
a premium not to exceed $386,250 for policy period November 1, 2018, through
November 1, 2023, to be paid out of capital funds previously approved through
Board Resolution #19088. RESOLUTION 19225.
6. The Board unanimously approved the purchase of Owners Protective Professional
Indemnity Insurance from XL Catlin Insurance Company with limits of $20,000,000
per incident for a premium not to exceed $357,000 for policy period November 1,
2018, through December 31, 2023, to be paid out of capital funds previously
approved through Board Resolution #19088. RESOLUTION 19226.
F.

Finance Committee – No Meeting

G.

Legal and Government Relations Committee
1. The Board unanimously approved the continued on-going engagement of Strategic
Health Care as consultants for the System’s federal government relations activities,
for additional total costs not to exceed $60,000, for the period between September
2018 and December 2018, for a total amount of fees not to exceed $220,000 plus
reasonable out-of-pocket expenses, for the period between September 2016 and
December 2018, to be paid out of general operating funds. RESOLUTION 19227.
2. The Board unanimously approved the updated Conflicts of Interest Policy for the
Board of Trustees. RESOLUTION 19228.

3.

H

Nominating Committee – No Meeting

I.

Patient Experience Committee – None

J.

Quality and Safety Committee – None

President and CEO’s Report
Dr. Boutros indicated his report was in the Board Book. An article concerning the City of
Massillon and Affinity Medical Center was distributed to those in attendance. MetroHealth was
one of seven that responded to proposals to assist Affinity Medical Center, and MetroHealth
presented a program to Massillon to start an emergency department at the site of the Affinity
Medical Center that included an observation unit but not an inpatient facility and indicated that
MetroHealth offered to provide support with the two other area hospitals as well since the closure
2

 of Affinity Medical Center. Dr. Boutros believes MetroHealth offered to provide what was best
for the community but were not selected because our offer did not include what was required by
government representatives in terms of the scope of services. The ordinance that would have
named the new operator of Affinity was postponed by Massillon City Council. For other matters
Dr. Boutros referred the Board to his Report.
4.

Nursing/Magnet Report – Melissa Kline, Chief Nursing Officer
Ms. Kline began her report by indicating that the 2018 Nurse Satisfaction Survey Results were
received and did show progress, but the focus will be on other opportunities for improvement.
Five MetroHealth nurses were nominated again for the Ohio March of Dimes Nurse of the Year
Awards: Ashley Rozman, Chris Seminatore, Kelly Gilhousen, Maria Breahna, and Rebecca Scott.
These nurses will be recognized at a luncheon in Columbus on November 2, 2018. The names of
six nurses were submitted for consideration for faculty appointments to the Frances Payne Bolton
School of Nursing pursuant to the new Affiliation Agreement. On September 14, 2018, Ms.
Kline’s discussion was well received by the incoming freshman nursing class at the Case Western
Reserve University Stethoscope Ceremony. Kelly Seabold, Manager of the Magnet Program, will
be recognized in the November 19 issue of Crain’s Cleveland Business as part of the 2018 Forty
Under 40 Class.

5.

Medical Staff
A.

Report of Medical Staff President – Dr. Sandra Werner
Dr. Werner reported the Medical Staff held its first Fall meeting on September 25, 2018,
noting that no meetings were held during the Summer. The Medical Staff created the
Great Catch Safety Superstars Award to recognize ancillary staff and trainees who make
great catches involving safety; Annette Sellers, an Environmental Services Aide, and
Robert Reitz, MD, a resident, are the first to be presented the award for saving the life of
a patient by recognizing that he was choking and performing the Heimlich maneuver.
Dr. Werner is looking for nominees from anyone who sees an individual doing something
great on behalf of safety as part of an effort to make MetroHealth the safest hospital in
Cleveland. The Medical Staff recently created a newsletter to be published every month
featuring different providers, Continuing Medical Education events, and the updates to
Epic. Providers who received public recognition are: Jayme Knutson, Ph.D., Director of
Research for PM&R, was awarded a $3.2 million grant from the National Institute of
Health to evaluate a contralaterally controlled functional electrical stimulation program;
Marina Magrey, a Rheumatology physician, submitted an article to be published in the
, one of the premier medical journals; Molly McNett, Ph.D. RN, Director of
The Lancet
Nursing Research & EBP, received a fellowship designation from the Neurocritical Care
Society; Holly Perzy, Vice President of Care Delivery and Executive Director of
MetoHealth Select/Skyway, was featured in the August 20, 2018, issue of Crain’s
as a notable woman in healthcare; Daryl Thornton MD MPH was
Cleveland Business
elected to a two-year title as Chair of the American Thoracic Society of Neuroscience and
Health Services Research Assembly; and Henry Young DBS was selected to receive the
Fred Fielder DBS distinguished Dentist Award. Mr. McDonald made a motion and the
Board unanimously approved the Medical Staff appointments and actions for September
2018, as well as the Medical Executive Committee Minutes of August 10, 2018.

B.

Approval of Medical Staff Providers Appointments and Actions – September 2018
1. The Board unanimously approved the Medical Staff Providers Appointments and
Actions for September 2018. RESOLUTION 19229.

C.

Medical Executive Committee Minutes – August 10, 2018

3

 D.

Report of Case Western Reserve University (CWRU), School of Medicine –
Dr. Patricia Thomas
Dr. Thomas began her report by stating that the CWRU School of Medicine graduated its
first Physician Assistants class in August, was happy to announce that 100% of the
students passed their boards, half of these students have accepted jobs in Ohio, and a
class of 36 students were admitted to another class this year. CWRU now has five
pathways that contain enhanced curricula in the MD curriculum; the students keep
requesting more, noting a group of students last year indicated an interest in advocacy
training and have developed a two-year curriculum in health care advocacy of leadership,
sought expertise from individuals, and wanted to thank those who responded with an
offer to assist. Another group is very interested in business of medicine. CWRU offers a
dual degree but students are requesting extra training without participating in the full
MD/MBA degree, noting Dr. Boutros and Dr. Silvers offered to assist the students and the
students are very grateful for their involvement. CWRU is pursuing a clerkship model for
several students on community-based sites such as MetroHealth to place them in clinics
for over a year to develop better relationships, an understanding of the health care
system, and how to provide quality care, stating that Dr. Michael Raddock will be
assisting to lead that effort.
Dr. Boutros reported that MetroHealth has approximately a 105-year history with CWRU
School of Medicine and stated that it had expanded its relationship first with the addition
of the Dental School and then the Nursing School. More recently, MetroHealth is seeking
a relationship with the School of Social Work concerning the Community Trauma Program
and seeking several relationships with the Business School.

6.

Audit Committee
A.

Report of Committee Chairperson
Dr. Silvers began his report stating recently published Medicare ACO results were
phenomenal, noting the ACO is performing incredibly well. Reviewed at the September
12 Audit Committee meeting were the real-time system implementation reviews of Epic
and EPSi. Compliance training will be held for the The MetroHealth System Board of
Trustees after the October 24, 2018, meeting. Extensive reports were given on both the
Internal Audit and External Audit, noting that we’re preparing the Audit Plan for 2019.
Further discussions focused on different GASB Pronouncements, 11 internal audits in
process, matters concerning cyber security, and the normal construction cost review.
Ms. Wahl stated that the Conflicts of Interest Policy and Disclosure Form is incorporated
in the Board materials provided and Board Members are being asked to complete the
Disclosure Form that is part of an annual process.
Mr. Richmond elaborated that Cheryl Forino Wahl and her team had over the past
noting
months rewritten MetroHealth’s Code of Conduct titled Who, We
Areall 6,900
employees are attending live training with over 200 live education sessions available and
being held through the end of the year with the goal of moving us to be one of the most
ethical organizations in the United States. The 2018 external audit is underway,
MetroHealth’s auditors being RSM, formerly McGladrey. GASB (Governmental Accounting
Standards Board) Statement No. 75 focusing on the accounting and financial reporting
for post-employment benefits other than pensions will need to be adopted in 2018 and
will have a large impact on the overall financials but will have no cash impact to the
organization. GASB Statement No. 68 adopted several years ago focused on the
treatment of pensions. One item noted is that future accounting changes do not impact
the System’s two bond covenants, and this provision made the investor community
comfortable when MetroHealth went to market. Internal Audit has been outsourced to
KPMG over the past three years, and it uses analytics heavily when auditing different
4

 areas of the organization that can cover an entire population indicating we can cover
more by using data than just using a sample-based approach as MetroHealth has in the
past. MetroHealth continues to move towards being a cyber resilient organization as we
continue to harden our infrastructure and spend time through educational awareness of
our employees, noting phishing tests are conducted on a regular basis throughout the
year, with a fictitious email being sent to the entire organization. KPMG was engaged
and is now in the process of performing a HIPAA risk and cyber program assessment
with Cheryl Forino Wahl and David Fiser, our new Vice President and Chief Information
Officer, who recently came to MetroHealth from Akron General Health System.
B.

Non-Consent Agenda
1. Action Items – None
2. Information Items
a. 2018 External Audit Plan
b. 2018 Compliance Update
c. 2018 Internal Audit Update
d. Transformation Project Construction Cost Review
e. Cyber Security & IT Update

7.

Community Engagement Committee – No Meeting

8.

Diversity and Inclusion Committee
A.

Report of Committee Chairperson
Ms. Whiting began her report by stating that MetroHealth is on track to meet the 2018
Enterprise Diversity Goals. Discussions at the meeting revolved around recruiting,
retention, and promotion with respect to providers and discussing what is being
completed now, what could be done in the future, and how this relates to challenges and
opportunities. Other matters discussed were the mentorship programs, the selection
process, and how to ensure equal opportunity or equally-shared resources, noting further
discussion on the start of certain appointee groups, how effective will these groups be,
and how MetroHealth could be more supportive.

B.

Non-Consent Agenda
1. Action Items – None
2. Information Items
a. 2018 Enterprise Diversity Goals Update
b. Office of Inclusion and Diversity
c. Human Resources
d. Supplier Diversity
e. Campus Transformation
f. Current Insights and Future State Vision

9.

Executive Committee – No Report

10.

Facilities and Space Committee
A.

Report of Committee Chairperson
Mr. Monnolly stated that a report was given by Facilities Management on the water and
electrical outages experienced at the outpatient centers, and also noting 49 issues
currently being addressed from the life safety audit to prepare for the Joint Commission
Survey. Due to the age of the buildings, there was a backlog of 1,700 works orders to
complete and, through a concerted focus and selective overtime, this backlog was
reduced to 545 work orders. Walter Jones presented an update on the Campus
Transformation, the first item being a review of the different details of the new parking
5

 garage which is now substantially complete. One detail of the parking garage that stood
out from others is the connector bridge from the second floor of the garage to the
hallway in front of the cafeteria, noting the parking garage was built on time and on
budget inclusive of the connector bridge being installed. The widening of View Road and
construction is presently underway which will be the primary construction and emergency
access road for the final Campus Transformation Project. View Road will be a three-lane
service road that will run from the intersection of West 25th Street and the ramp off I-71
and proceed around the Prentiss Center and north to the new parking garage. The
South parking garage demolition is to begin late November/early December and, when
that is completed, the foundation work will begin on the new hospital. Schematic
designs of the new hospital were reviewed from the beginning of day one in 2017 to
present to show how the plans have evolved. Other items were to be discussed in
Executive Session.
B.

Non-Consent Agenda
1. Action Items - None
2. Information Items
a. Facilities Management Update
b. Campus Transformation Update

11.

Finance Committee – No Meeting

12.

Legal and Government Relations Committee
A.

Report of Committee Chairperson
Ms. Whiting began her report noting that the Committee received a Government
Relations update from Tracy Carter on 340B, noting the hospital industry continues to
fight for Medicare payments to be restored for drug purchases. Ohio’s largest 340B
providers, being MetroHealth, OSU Medical Center, and University of Cincinnati Health,
are working together in advocating for 340B reform.
Laura McBride provided a Risk Management report; no new material complaints have
been received and the sentencing of former MetroHealth employees are now behind us.
MetroHealth is participating as a Plaintiff in litigation involving a Complaint against an
opioid manufacturer of a pharmaceutical company.
Dr. Boutros reported meeting with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services’
Administrator Seema Verma representing public hospitals and discussions concerning
340B pricing and site neutral payments which have a significant impact. MetroHealth is
one of 178 hospitals in Ohio and represents less than 2% of the revenues, 2% of the
visits, and 2% of the admissions but would sustain 15% of the payment cuts due to the
fact that we are predominantly a government payor focused hospital. Ms. Verma
appeared to be interested, asked a lot of questions, and MetroHealth is hopeful she will
assist in the attempt to make public hospitals exempt from these government payor cuts.

B.

13.

Non-Consent Agenda
1. Action Items - None
2. Information Items
a. Government Relations Update
b. Risk Management Report

Nominating Committee – No Meeting

6

 14.

Patient Experience Committee
A.

Report of Committee Chairperson
Ms. Dee began her report by stating that the Patient Experience Committee met on
August 8, 2018, and she thanked Dr. Brook Watts and Seona Goerndt for assembling a
robust Agenda. Two clinical staff representatives present at the meeting were
Dr. Sandra Werner, President of the Medical Staff and an Emergency Medicine Physician,
and Kimberly Svoboda, Executive Director of Ambulatory Network Operations. A new
structure for Patient Experience was presented on the hospital side which involves a
patient engagement and experience executive team that will report to the Board of
Trustees Patient Experience Committee. Topics discussed were: improvement activities
currently underway; four inpatient task force teams focused on cleanliness, discharge
planning, patients getting help when needed, and pain management. HCAHPS results
were reviewed by Katrina Dubovikova, the Patient Experience Data Analyst, as well as a
review of the industry’s five-year trends and noting that MetroHealth currently is a twostar hospital with two out of three patients indicating that they would recommend
MetroHealth. Michael Hansen, Supervisor of the Department of Patient Relations, shared
the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) regulations concerning patient
rights with respect to grievances, how grievances are filed, and the various causes of
complaints and grievances from 2015 to 2018 year-to-date. Michelle Mencke, Program
Supervisor of Patient Experience, and Gudiel Rodriguez-Hernandez, Senior Interpreter of
Language Access Services, reviewed the Language Access and Interpretive Services
Programs. Limited English proficient patients and families have access to on-site and
telephonic interpretive services, noting 7% of MetroHealth’s adult patients are identified
as having a preferred language other than English with 4% speaking Spanish and an
additional 98 patients needing American Sign Language. The next meeting of the Patient
Experience Committee will be held on November 14, 2018, at 4 o’clock in the afternoon
instead of the morning as requested by Board Member Robert Hurwitz.

B.

15.

Non-Consent Agenda
1. Action Items – None
2. Information Items
a. Introductions / New Members
b. Overview of Patient Engagement and Experience Programs
c. HCAHPS Overview & Key Touch Points in The Hospital Patient Experience
d. Review 2018 YD Grievance/Complaint Data
e. Review Language Access Data/Interpretive Services

Quality and Safety Committee
A.

Report of Committee Chairperson
Dr. Brook Watts gave a report in Mr. Moss’ absence. Discussions involved Quality
Institute goals and the disparities data, noting the review of performance in filtered
Tricare metrics compared to national benchmarks showed that MetroHealth performed
better than national benchmarks for the racial and ethnic minorities and all the metrics
asked to be evaluated. Gaps in other care are being investigated further. System goals
were also reviewed, noting MetroHealth moved from one of the bottom performers and
stayed toward the top on the Hospital Acquired Infections goals score in CatheterAssociated Urinary Tract Infections (CAUTI) and Central Line Infections.

7

 B.

16.

Non-Consent Agenda
1. Action Items – None
2. Information Items
a. Equitable Care
b. Approval of 2017 Quality Review
c. 2018 Systems and QI Goals Update
d. Patient Safety Survey Results and Discussion of Next Steps

External Affairs Report – Elizabeth Allen, Senior Vice President, External Affairs
No report was presented for External Affairs.

17.

Foundation and System Philanthropy Report – Kate Brown – President, The
MetroHealth Foundation and MHS Chief Development Officer
Ms. Brown reported the week of September 21, 2018, began with the ribbon cutting event and
celebration of the opening of the Food as Medicine Program in partnership with The Cleveland
Foodbank. An invitation will be received in the mail for a further celebration to be held on
October 30, 2018, from 5:30-7 p.m. Patients who suffer from either of the three chronic
diseases and are food insecure will receive an actual prescription to the pantry located in the
Outpatient Pavilion adjacent to the Rehabilitation Clinic where these patients will work with a
nutritionist to receive food appropriate for their special needs. Mr. McDonald, Ms. Whiting, Mr.
O’Neill, and Dr. Boutros were able to participate in this ribbon cutting event. Philanthropic
interest in this Program began with Citizens Bank making the initial grant followed recently by a
grant of approximately $80,000 from the Mt. Sinai Health Care Foundation. Finally, today The
Reinberger Foundation made a site visit to consider a grant of $50,000 in support of this pilot
program.
Dr. Boutros added that Members of The MetroHealth System Board of Trustees and Members of
The MetroHealth Foundation Board of Trustees, as well as community members, continue to
make significant progress in the campaign and wanted to acknowledge Brian O’Neill, Chairman of
The MetroHealth Foundation Board of Trustees on his extraordinary progress and dedication to
meeting the goals of MetroHealth.

A motion was unanimously passed by roll call vote to go into Executive Session to discuss trade secrets
and matters required to be kept confidential by law.
Following the Executive Session, the meeting reconvened in open session at approximately 9:08 a.m.
18.

Other Board Items
1. Approval to Further Amend the Agreement with Turner Construction Company as the
Construction Manager at Risk for Campus Transformation and Set the Guaranteed Maximum
Price (GMP) for Package No. 1
Mr. Monnolly reviewed with the Board the proposed resolution removed from the Consent
Agenda to further amend the agreement with Turner Construction Company to provide
construction services and set the GMP for Package No. 1 of the Campus Transformation
Project. He reviewed the purpose of the GMP, items which were included within this amount,
as specified in the Recommendation and excluded items. There being no further questions,
Mr. Monnolly proposed the following resolution.
The Board unanimously approved the further amendment of the agreement with Turner
Construction Company to provide Campus Transformation Project construction services and
set the GMP for Package No. 1 of the Campus Transformation project. The total fees for
GMP Package No. 1 shall not exceed $116,456,386 for a total amended agreement amount
8

 not to exceed $131,511,525 to be paid out of capital funds previously approved through
Board Resolution 19088. RESOLUTION 19230.
2. Approval of Transaction Structure for Nonprofit Affiliations
Dr. Boutros indicated that the next item for discussion was to review and discuss a specific
nonprofit transaction structure, the substitution of member model. He asked Mr. Phillips to
review this model and for the Board to ask questions as needed.
Mr. Phillips began by noting that this model is used in the nonprofit field due to the fact that
nonprofit corporations do not have stock or equity. He noted that this type of transaction
was not necessarily limited to healthcare, that many of these transactions occurred for a
wide range of nonprofit organizations but that it was a widely used and a well-accepted
structure for nonprofit healthcare organizations.
He noted that the review would be for the model in general terms in order to get the Board
comfortable with the potential use of this model, but also noted that any specific transaction
would and must be brought back to the Board for its approval.
Mr. Phillips continued by noting that there had been many discussions regarding
collaborations, partnerships, affiliations and transactions of many types that we have
discussed for more than a year. Where we are dealing with nonprofit organizations, Chapter
140 of the Ohio Revised Code provides MetroHealth with a great deal of flexibility to
structure those affiliations and collaborations, but the member substitution model is very
specific to a transaction where there is a change in control of the other party. To be clear, it
is not mentioned in Chapter 140, but the substitution of member model fits within the
statute.
Dr. Boutros noted that over the years MetroHealth had established nonprofit organizations
with MetroHealth designees as the members and he asked Mr. Phillips to identify these for
the Board. Mr. Phillips reviewed each of these organizations for the Board.
Mr. Phillips then noted materials describing the substitution of member model had been
provided to the Board. In the substitution of member structure that an acquiror acquires
control and indirect ownership of the target corporation through becoming the member of
the target. The target’s liabilities remain with the target corporation which is now owned by
acquiror/parent. This transaction is implemented by amendment of target’s governing
documents. Also, there will be a definitive agreement, usually an Affiliation Agreement,
sometimes also referred to as a Substitution of Member Agreement. The key governance
element is implemented through the replacement of target’s existing member(s) by the
acquiror/parent. The next step would be to amend the Bylaws to provide that the existing
target directors remain but add parent representative directors and create reserved powers
for the member. These reserved powers are typically designed to permit governing board
continuity but reserve key business actions to the acquiror/parent. There are many options
as to the terms and specifics of reserved powers. The new parent as sole member will have
specified powers designated in the Bylaws and potential key items were discussed. It is
important to note that day-to-day management remains with the officers and employees of
the target. Mr. Phillips reviewed potential successor liability concerns and other corporate
operational risks.
Mr. Phillips then discussed certain steps which should be taken to formalize the relationship
between MetroHealth and the target and also reviewed issues and terms specific to
MetroHealth as a public entity.
The Board asked a number of questions and these issues were discussed to the satisfaction
of the Board. Dr. Boutros and Mr. Phillips then reviewed the resolution and Mr. McDonald
called for a vote.
9

 The Board unanimously approved a specific transaction structure that the System may utilize
for certain collaborative affiliations described in Attachment A to the Resolution for the
purpose of providing the System options in connection with potential collaborative affiliations
with nonprofit health providers, hospitals and health systems. RESOLUTION 19231.
3. Approval of Affiliation with a Nonprofit Healthcare Provider
Next Dr. Boutros introduced Julie Jacono, MetroHealth’s Vice President for Strategic
Operations, who reviewed the terms of a specific transaction we are bringing to you for
approval. Ms. Jacono indicated that she would be providing information regarding
MetroHealth’s acquisition of Recovery Resources through a substitution of member
transaction. She described the activities of Recovery Resources and the proposed terms of
the transaction, including the Affiliation Agreement and various other transactional
documents, all as identified in the Confidential/Trade Secret document provided to the Board.
She reviewed the proposed governance and other terms as described in the Attachment.
She provided an operational overview of Recovery Resources operations, finances, and how
MetroHealth would intend to work with them. Numerous questions were posed by the Board
and discussed fully to their satisfaction.
The Chair indicated that the Resolution was in the Board book and with no further questions,
the Resolution was moved and seconded.
The Board unanimously approved an Affiliation with a nonprofit healthcare provider, as more
fully described in Attachment A. RESOLUTION 19232.
4. Approval of the Purchase of Certain Capital Equipment. REMOVED.
The meeting adjourned at approximately 10:20 a.m.
NEXT MEETING:

October 24, 2018 (WEDNESDAY) – 8:00 a.m.
The MetroHealth System
Respectfully submitted,

Thomas McDonald, Chairperson

Akram Boutros, M.D., FACHE
President and Chief Executive Officer

10

 