 

American Legion

MEL BAHER
COMMISSIONER

JON REISS
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

DATE:

PRESENT:

VISITORS:

PURPOSE:

The meeting was called to order by President Potts followed by the Pledge of Allegiance.

   

American Veterans Disabled American Veterans Veterans 01' Foreign Wars

FRANK POCCI VACANT CLAYTON E. UZELL
COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER
Cuyahoga County

Veterans Service Commission
P11: 216.698.2600 0 Fax: 216.698.2650
Email: vscmail@cuyahogacounty.us

1849 Prospect Avenue 0 Suite 150 0 Cleveland, OH 441 15

MINUTES

February 7, 2018 9:30 am.

Bob Potts, President

Clayton E. Uzell, Vice President

Mel Baher, Secretary

Frank Pocci, Commissioner

DAV Commissioner, Vacant

Jon Reiss, Executive Director

Brian Gutkoski, Asst. County Prosecutor
Lorri Slivka, Executive Secretary

None.

GENERAL MEETING

 

Vietnam Veterans of America

BOB POTTS
COMMISSIONER

A motion was made by Mel Baher and seconded by Clay Uzell to dispense with the reading of the
Consent Agenda and to accept the agenda with the necessary corrections and/or additions. (All
Commissioners have a copy of the minutes.)

AYES: Baher, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

REPORTS:

Clay Uzell VFW

0 January 10lh attended the Level appeal hearings.

0 January 17th attended the open public meeting.

0 January 18-24?h I attended the VFW Mid-Winter Conference held at the Holiday Inn in
Independence, Ohio. I attended the of A meeting and gave the safety report. I presented the
awards to participating VFW Posts who entered Law Enforcement/Fire Fighter candidates. On
Saturday, I presented the awards to our State winners for Law Enforcement/Fire ighters/EMT. I
attended the Voice of Democracy banquet.

0 January 24?" I attended the Level appeals hearings.

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886?

Internet 0 

Frank Pocci a AMVETS

0 I gave the ?nancial report for Post 80 on February Over the last month, we have welcomed
three new members into the Post.

0 AMVETS was disappointed that the NFL did not broadcast the one-page ad during the super
bowl. It was reprehensible that the NFL would permit players to kneel during the National
Anthem (and they do have a right to do so), but not permit the AMVETS to show an ad that
simply stated ?stand for the Flag.?

0 The Honor Guard served funeral duties at the Ohio Western Reserve Cemetery on January in

frigid weather conditions.

Other Activities:

0 During January, I attended all the scheduled meetings.

I was told by two veterans of how knowledgeable and expeditious our service of?cer Bill
Vissi is at the Parma CBOC. I told them I would pass this information along.

a I attended the Italian American War Veterans (ITAM) meeting. As ?nance
of?cer, I also completed our financial report.

I attended the VFW convention at the Holiday Inn Independence. I visited with a number
of veterans and discussed the services and bene?ts of the 

I attended a meeting at the on February 5?h with Senator Sherrod Brown to hear

about the improvements made for when a veteran owes the VA money due to
overpayments, and how the VA will set up an affordable repayment plan that will not
cause an undue hardship for the veteran.

Mel Baher American Legion

I attended all scheduled meetings of the during the month of January 2018. Following, is a

report of my activities outside of the Cuyahoga County Veterans Service Commission for the month of

January 2018.

0 Wednesday, January 3rd I attended the American Legion 13th District Council membership
meeting held at American Legion Post 627 in Newburg Hts, Ohio. The meeting began at 7:30
pm. I presented the executive board approved financial reports for November 2017, as District
Finance Of?cer.

0 Thursday, January 11th I attended the American Legion Post 91 membership meeting at 7:00
pm. I presented my membership report, as Vice Commander.
0 Friday, January 19?'1 to Sunday, January 21St I attended the American Legion Department of

Ohio Mid-winter conference held in Columbus, Ohio at the Crowne Plaza Hotel. I attended all
scheduled meetings and listened to the National Commander as she addressed the conference
. meeting on Sunday. 

0 January 22nd I attended the American Legion 13th District Council executive board meeting held
at American Legion Post 627 in Newburg Hts., Ohio. I presented the December 2017 ?nancial
reports for board approval, as District Finance Of?cer.

0 Thursday, January 25th I attended the American Legion Post 91 executive board meeting held at
7:00 pm. I presented my updated membership report, as 1St Vice Commander.

Bob Potts VVA

0 The VVA did not conduct a meeting in January 2018.

I attended both Open public meetings and both Level appeals hearings during January.
0 I attended Senator Sherrod Brown?s press conference at the on Monday, February 51?.

OLD BUSINESS:

Jon Reiss provided board members with a draft copy of the new vehicle wrap. Recommended changes
will be made and the revision will be sent to the board, via email, for approval.

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886? Internet I 

NEW BUSINESS:

A motion was made by Mel Baher and seconded by Frank Pocci to approve Resolution 2018-04
requesting authority for the Executive Director to attend national conferences and symposiums as
necessary to enhance veterans? services throughout Cuyahoga County for Year 2018, expenses not to
exceed $10,000.00.

AYES: Baher, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

GOOD OF THE ORDER:
The County will no longer send expense reimbursements to the office. All checks will be mailed directly
to the employee?s home address. Staff was asked to verify their current address with the Finance Dept.

EXECUTIVE SESSION:
A motion was made by Mel Baher and seconded by Frank Pocci to go into Executive Session to discuss

employee compensation.
AYES: Baher, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried. (10:37 am.)

The Board out of Executive Session and returned to the regular order of business at 10:59 am.

  
 
    

In Executive ssion, the Board discussed a personnel matter and advised the Director on how to proceed.
With no furthe business, a motion was made by Clay Uzell and seconded by Mel Baher to adjourn the

meeting at 11' am.
AYES: cci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

j??j/MV

Boant Mel Baher, Secretary

 

 

CONTACT INFORMATION
Requests for Financial Assistance/
Filing claims with the Dept. of

Veterans? Affairs/Memorial Affairs: Melinda Halliburton, Service Of?ce Mgr. (216-698?2639)
Social Work Dept.: Terry Walker, Social Worker/Case Mgmt.) (216-698-2379)
Executive Director: Jon Reiss (216-698-2611)

Commissioners: Lorri Slivka, Secretary to the Board (216-698~2646)

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886? Internet 0 

