Administrative Rules Board
NOTICE OF PROPOSED RULE

RESOLUTION NO.
REQUESTING ENTITY
ARB2019-0001
Sustainability

RULE TITLE
Cuyahoga County
Rules for Receiving a
Bicycle and Scooter
Share Vendor’s
License

ACTION
Adopt permanent rule

Written commentary regarding the above actions shall be provided to the Clerk of the
Administrative Rules Board, Staci Garlington, by 8:30 a.m. on June 11th, 2019.
Written submissions can be sent to sgarlington@cuyahogacounty.us. Any person may also
appear at a Board meeting and provide verbal commentary during the public comment period
at the beginning of the Board meeting. The next Board meeting is tentatively scheduled for
June 13, 2019 at 9:30am at 2079 E. 9th Street, 4th Floor, Committee Room B.

 CUYAHOGA COUNTY RULES FOR RECEIVING A BICYCLE
AND SCOOTER SHARE VENDOR’S LICENSE
CUYAHOGA COUNTY
BICYCLE AND SCOOTER SHARE APPLICATION
Any operator interested in applying for a License shall submit an application to Cuyahoga County.
The County will coordinate with the City of Cleveland on issuing County licenses and City of
Cleveland Permits. If an applicant does not receive a City of Cleveland Permit, they will have the
option of rescinding their application to the County and will not be required to pay the County’s
Licensing fee. The application must include at least these items:
1. Table outlining how applicant meets each Safety and Maintenance
Requirement outlined in the following pages;
2. Completed License (attached);
3. Insurance documentation;
4. Images and description of bicycle, scooter, and mobile application;
5. Size of fleet at launch, including any planned fleet expansions and proposed time
periods of expansion during the pilot period;
6. Service area within Cuyahoga County at launch, including any planned expansions and
proposed time periods of expansion during the next three years; and
7. Plan for educating users on proper bicycle and scooter parking.

Please submit applications to:
Director of Sustainability
Cuyahoga County Department of Sustainability
2079 E. 9th Street, 8th Floor
Cleveland, Ohio 44115

 BICYCLE AND SCOOTER SHARE LICENSE
THIS LICENSE is issued this
day of
,
(“Issue Date”), by
Cuyahoga County, a body corporate and politic and a political subdivision of the State of Ohio
organized and existing under the Charter of Cuyahoga County effective January 1, 2010, as
same may have been amended, modified, and supplemented to the effective date hereof,
(“County”), to
(hereinafter “Operator”).
Pursuant to the Cuyahoga County Code, and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein,
this Bicycle and Scooter Share License allows the Operator to operate within Right-of-Way
controlled by the municipalities of the County.
1. Definitions
“Bicycle and Scooter Share” means a transportation program that allows users to rent bicycles,
scooters, and other modes of transportation, as approved by the County, within the County for
point-to-point trips.
“Bicycle and Scooter Share Fleet” means a specially designed, sturdy and durable group of bicycles,
scooters, and other modes of transportation, as approved by the County, that operate together
under the same ownership.
“Stationless Bicycle and Scooter Share” means users can pick up a bicycle, scooter, or other
mode of transportation anywhere within a system’s service area, ride it from point-to-point,
and park it wherever they arrive, within the system's service area.
“Bicycle and Scooter Preferred Parking Location” means locations designated by the County
where users can park a bicycle, scooter, or other mode of transportation and receive a 25%
discount on their fare
“Right-of-Way” is defined by applicable municipal ordinances and state law, but generally refers to
the area on, below, and above an existing or proposed public roadway, highway, street, bicycle
lane or sidewalk, planting strip, and associated adjacent land, in which the municipalities within
the County have a property interest, whether by easement or fee and regardless of how acquired
or established, for public travel and utility purposes. For purposes of this License, “Right-of-Way”
shall not include property held or acquired primarily for the purpose of the movement of public
transit vehicles, including railroad right-of-way.
2. Term. This License shall expire one year from the Issue Date. A new application must be
submitted and approved by the County before operations can continue after the end of this
term. If a renewal application is not submitted nor approved, Operator must remove the Bicycle
and Scooter Share Fleet within 30 days after the end of this term.
3. Payment. The cost of this License shall be $5,000 dollars with a $0.15 per trip fee to be sent to
the County on a monthly basis. The County shall instruct Operator to pay the portion of the
$0.15 per trip fee directly to each city that has an agreement with the County regarding Bicycle
and Scooter Share operations for all trips that originated in that city.

 4. Regulation. Operator must at all times be compliant with the Cuyahoga County Bicycle and
Scooter Share Requirements in Exhibit A, attached and made a part of this License, in addition to
any permit requirements by the City of Cleveland when operating within the City of Cleveland.
5. Filing of Information. Operator shall file with the County, and keep current, the
following information:
a. The name, address, telephone number, fax number and e-mail address of a
local representative(s). A local representative shall be available during normal
business hours.
b. Information regarding how to contact the Operator in an emergency.
c. Name, address, telephone number, and e-mail address of all contractors
authorized to work on Operator’s behalf. The Operator shall be liable to the
County for any and all work performed on the Operator’s behalf in
connection with this License.
d. Operator shall file changes or additions to the above required information
within fifteen (15) business days following the date on which Operator has
knowledge of any changes or additions. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
emergency contact information and information regarding authorized
contractors shall be kept current at all times.
e. Operators shall prepare and maintain maps of Bicycle and Scooter
Preferred Parking Locations located within the County limits. Upon
request, Operator shall allow the County to review such maps.
6. Indemnification. Operator hereby indemnifies, defends and holds harmless the County, any
municipality it operates in within the County, and any entity with a rebalancing location on
its private property, and their respective officers, officials, directors, board members,
employees, and agents, from and against all claims, damages, losses, liens, causes of action,
suits, judgments and expenses (including attorney’s fees and other costs of defense), of any
nature, kind or description, that result from (a) the negligent acts or omissions of Operator,
including all of its officers, owners, principals, subcontractors, employees, and agents, or (b)
breach or default by Operator under any terms or provisions of this License.
7. No Indemnity by County. Operator acknowledges that, as a political subdivision of the State
of Ohio, neither the County nor any municipality it is operating in within the County does not
indemnify any person or entity. Operator agrees that no provision of this License or any
other contract or agreement between Operator and the County may be interpreted to
obligate the County to indemnify or defend Operator or any other party.
8. Insurance. The Operator shall obtain and maintain during the life of this License, with an
insurance Company rated A- VII or above by A.M. Best, authorized to do business in the State
of Ohio, the following insurance:

 a. Worker’s Compensation Insurance as required by the State of Ohio. If Operator
has employees working outside of Ohio, Operator shall provide Worker’s
Compensation Insurance as required by the various state and federal laws
including Employers’ Liability coverage.
b. Commercial General Liability with limits of liability not less than:
•
$1,000,000 each occurrence bodily injury & property damage;
•
$1,000,000 personal & advertising injury;
•
$1,000,000 general aggregate;
•
$1,000,000 products/completed operations aggregate.
Such insurance shall be written on an occurrence basis on the Insurance Services
Office (ISO) form or its equivalent.
c. Business Automobile Liability Insurance covering all owned, non-owned, hired,
and leased vehicles. Such insurance shall provide a limit of not less than
$1,000,000 combined single limit (bodily injury & property damage) each
accident.
Such insurance shall be written on an occurrence basis on the Insurance Services
Office (ISO) form or its equivalent.
The Operator shall not commence any Services in connection with this License until it
has obtained all of the foregoing types of insurance and such insurance has been
approved by the County. The Company shall not allow any subcontractor to
commence Services on its subcontract until all similar insurance required of the
subcontractor has been obtained and approved.
OTHER INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.

1.

The insurance policies of the Operator required for this License, shall:
a)
Name the “County of Cuyahoga, Ohio and its employees” as an
Additional Insured. This does not apply to Workers Compensation, Professional
Liability/Errors & Omissions Insurance and Technology Professional/Errors &
Omissions Insurance, or Cyber Risk Insurance.
b)
Contain a waiver of subrogation provision wherein the insurer(s) waives
all rights of recovery against the County; and
c)

Be primary and not in excess or contingent on any other basis; and

d)
The Certificates of Insurance evidencing these coverages shall contain
the following additional insured and waiver of subrogation language where
applicable:
(a)
“Cuyahoga County and its employees are additional
insureds for purposes of commercial general liability and
automobile liability”: and/or
(b)
“Waiver of subrogation in favor of the County.”

2.

The insurance required for this License shall be provided by insurance carrier(s)
licensed to transact business and write insurance in the state(s) where operations are
performed and shall carry a minimum A.M. Best’s rating of A- VII or above.

 3.

The terms of this License shall be controlling and shall not be limited by any
insurance policy provision.

4.

These insurance provisions shall not affect or limit the liability of cc stated
elsewhere in this License or as provided by law.

5.

cc shall require any and all of its subcontractors to procure, maintain, and pay
premiums for the insurance coverages and limits of liability outlined above with respect to
products, services, work and/or operations performed in connection with this License.

6.

The County reserves the right to require insurance coverages in various amounts
or to modify or waive insurance requirements on a case-by-case basis whenever it is
determined to be in the best interest of the County.

7.

If the Bid/Proposal/RFQ specifies the need for higher limits of liability for any
applicable insurance provision, the Bid/Proposal/RFQ specifications shall govern.

8.

Where coverages are made on a claims-made basis the claims-made retroactive
date on the policy shall be prior to the commencement of professional activity related to
this License.

9.

cc shall furnish a Worker’s Compensation Certificate and Certificate of Insurance
evidencing the insurance coverages required herein are in full force and effect. Acceptance
of a non-conforming certificate of insurance by the County shall not constitute a waiver of
any rights of the parties under this License.
9. License Subject to Exercise of Police Powers. All right and privileges granted herein are
subject to the police powers of the County and all municipalities within the County and
its right to make laws and regulations.
10. Non-Assignability. This License may not be transferred or assigned.
11. Non-Exclusivity. This License does not give the Operator an exclusive right to operate a Bicycle
and Scooter Share program in the County. The County reserves the right to limit the number of
Bicycle and Scooter Share programs within the County. Each municipality within the County
reserves the right to exclude Bicycle and Scooter Share programs within their municipalities or
come up with their own Licensing schemes.
12. Termination. The County may terminate this License for its convenience and without cause. Any
notice of termination will be effective thirty (30) days after the party receives it.
13. Adherence to Bicycle and Scooter Share License Requirements. The Operator shall abide
by all terms as outlined in the County’s Bicycle and Scooter License Requirements.
14. Notices. Wherever one party is required or permitted to give notice to the other
pursuant to this License, such notice shall be deemed given when delivered by hand, via
certified mail with return receipt requested, via overnight courier with signature
required, and addressed as follows:

 In the case of the County:
Cuyahoga County Department of Sustainability
2079 East 9th Street, 8th Floor
Cleveland, Ohio 44115
In the case of cc:

Either party may from time to time change its designated recipient or address for
notification purposes by giving the other party written notice of the new designated
recipient or address and the date upon which it will become effective.
15. Waiver. No delay or omission by either party in the exercise of any right or power shall impair any
such right or power or be construed to be a waiver thereof. A waiver by either of the parties of
any of the covenants, conditions or agreements to be performed by the other or any breach
thereof shall not be construed to be a waiver of any succeeding breach thereof or of any other
covenant, condition or agreement herein contained. No change, waiver or discharge hereof shall
be valid unless in writing and signed by an authorized representative of the party against which
such change, waiver, or discharge is sought to be enforced.
16. Survival of Terms. Termination or expiration of this License for any reason shall not release either
party from any liabilities or obligations set forth in this License which (i) the parties have expressly
agreed shall survive any such termination or expiration, or (ii) remain to be performed or by their
nature would be intended to be applicable following any such termination or expiration.
17. Record Audit Retention. cc agrees to make all pertinent contractual books and records and other
documents pertaining to this License available to the County and its designated agents for
purpose of audit and examination upon reasonable request during the term of this License and
for a period of two (2) years from the expiration date or final payment under this License,
whichever is later; provided however, that should cc be notified that an audit has been
commenced pursuant to Ohio Revised Code Sec. 117.11 during said period, for which the
aforesaid books and records are material, the aforesaid records shall be retained pending the
completion of said audit.
18. Governing Law and Jurisdiction. This License shall be governed by, and shall be construed and
enforced in accordance with, the laws of the State of Ohio. The parties agree that the state and
federal courts sitting in Ohio will have exclusive jurisdiction over any claim arising out of this
License, and each party consents to the exclusive jurisdiction of such courts. cc hereby agrees not
to challenge this Governing Law and Jurisdiction provision, and further agrees not to attempt to
remove any legal action outside of Cuyahoga County for any reason.
19. Assignment. cc shall not assign, transfer, convey or otherwise dispose of this License, or its right
to execute it, or its right, title or interest in or to it or any part thereof, or assign, by power of
attorney or otherwise, any of the monies due or to become due under this License without
approval of the County.

 20. Anti-Discrimination. cc agrees that in its employment of labor, skilled or unskilled, there shall be
no discrimination exercised against any person because of race, color, religion, national origin,
sex, gender, ancestry, age, disability, sexual orientation, sexual identity, genetic information,
military status, or veteran status, and a violation of this term shall be deemed a material breach
of this License. It shall be the policy of cc to provide equal opportunity to all business persons
seeking to contact, or otherwise interested in contracting with cc, including various eligible Small
Business Enterprises, but that such a policy does not create an obligation on the part of cc to enter
into any particular agreements.
21. No Apparent Authority/Proper Approvals. cc recognizes and agrees that no public official or
employee of the County may be deemed to have apparent authority to bind the County to any
contractual obligations not properly authorized pursuant to the County Code.
22. ELECTRONIC SIGNATURE. CC AGREES ON BEHALF OF THE SUBMITTING BUSINESS ENTITY, ITS
OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, SUBCONTRACTORS, SUBGRANTEES, AGENTS OR ASSIGNS, THAT ALL
LICENSE DOCUMENTS REQUIRING COUNTY SIGNATURES MAY BE EXECUTED BY ELECTRONIC
MEANS, AND THAT THE ELECTRONIC SIGNATURES AFFIXED BY THE COUNTY TO SAID
DOCUMENTS SHALL HAVE THE SAME LEGAL EFFECT AS IF THAT SIGNATURE WAS MANUALLY
AFFIXED TO A PAPER VERSION OF THE DOCUMENT. CC ALSO AGREES ON BEHALF OF THE
AFOREMENTIONED ENTITY AND PERSONS, TO BE BOUND BY THE PROVISIONS OF CHAPTERS
304 AND 1306 OF THE OHIO REVISED CODE AS THEY PERTAIN TO ELECTRONIC
TRANSACTIONS, AND TO COMPLY WITH THE ELECTRONIC SIGNATURE POLICY OF CUYAHOGA
COUNTY. License Subject to Additional or Altered Conditions.
23. The County reserves the right to terminate Licenses at any time and require that the entire
Bicycle and Scooter Share Fleet be removed from the right-of-way within 30 days, unless a
different time period is determined by the County.
24. Agreement with and Acceptance of Terms. By accepting this License and exercising the
right granted herein, the Operator agrees to and is hereby bound by the terms of the
License.
Signature Page to Follow

 CUYAHOGA COUNTY, OHIO

BY:
Director of Sustainability
Cuyahoga County
And

BY:
Name:
Title:

* This License is not valid until accepted in writing by the License applicant and the County.

 Exhibit A – Cuyahoga County Bicycle and Scooter Share Requirements
Safety Requirements
1. All bicycles used in systems issued a License under this program shall meet the standards
outlined in the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) under Title 16, Chapter II, Subchapter C, Part
1512 – Requirements for Bicycles. Additionally, Licensed systems shall meet the safety standards
outlined in by the International Organization of Standardization.
2. Any Licensed electric bicycles under this program shall meet the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administrations (NHTSA) definition of low-speed electric bicycles; and shall be subject to the
same requirements as ordinary bicycles (described above). This means, among other
requirements, that electric bicycles shall have fully operable pedals, an electric motor of less than
750 watts, and a top motor-powered speed of less than 20 miles per hour when operated by a
rider weighing 170 pounds. Additionally, Cuyahoga County (the “County”) may terminate any
License issued under this pilot program if the battery or motor on an electric bicycle or scooter is
determined by the County to be unsafe for public use.
3. All bicycles and scooters shall meet the Ohio Revised Code requirements for lights during hours
of darkness, described in ORC 4511.56, and all other applicable requirements of state law.
4. The maximum motor-assist speed of all bicycles and scooters in the program shall be 15 miles
per hour.
5. Every bicycle and scooter shall have a unique identifier that is clearly displayed and visible to the
user on the bicycle
Maintenance Requirements
1. Operator shall continuously maintain throughout the entire term of the License the insurance
coverage and limits of liability as outlined in the Bicycle and Scooter Share License at no expense to
the County.
2. Prior to the License being issued, Operator shall sign and record an agreement indemnifying and
holding harmless the County as outlined in the License Application.
3. Operator shall have staffed operations located within Cuyahoga County for maintenance and
rebalancing efforts.
4. Operator shall provide the County with a direct contact for staff that are capable of rebalancing
and relocating improperly parked bicycles and scooters.
5. Operator shall have a plan to encourage users to return Bicycles and Scooters to rebalancing
locations.
6. Operator shall provide the County with five account logins for County oversight.
7. Operator shall have a 24-hour customer service phone number for customers to report safety
concerns, maintenance issues, complaints, or ask questions.
8. Operator shall remove any inoperable or unsafe bicycle or scooter from the right-of-way within
24 hours of notice by any means to the operator by any individual or entity and shall be
repaired before placing the bicycle or scooter back into service. Operator must be able to

 remotely disable an individual bicycle or scooter upon notice of an issue with the bicycle or
scooter that makes it unfit for normal use.
9. The County or any of the municipalities within the County may remove bicycles or
scooters from the right-of-way if it interferes with pedestrian or vehicular traffic or if the
bicycle impedes or obstructs the right-of-way.
10. The County or any of the municipalities within the County may, without prior notice, remove
bicycles or scooters from the right-of-way if an emergency arises. In such instances, the County
or municipality will attempt to notify the Operator as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter.
11. The County or any of the municipalities within the County may inform the Operator of a special
event (marathons, parades, film shoots, etc.), at least seven days in advance of the event, and
Operator shall remove all bicycles and scooters within the area of the special event prior to the
event. If the County or any of the municipalities within the County provides the Operator with
notice of a calendar of events available online, this shall serve as notice on the Operator of any
special event on that calendar that appears at least seven days before the event.
12. Operator shall have at a minimum 150 bicycles and/or 150 scooters that are placed and regularly
rebalanced outside of the City of Cleveland, in communities that have an agreement with the
County to allow Bicycle and Scooter Share operations. The County will inform the Operator of
which communities have agreements with the County and whether the communities have their
own minimum and/or maximum fleet requirements. The Operator will work in good faith with
the communities to determine the best locations for such rebalancing and the number of bicycles
and scooters allowed at each rebalancing location.
13. The County shall periodically publish a map and chart, made in coordination with the
communities within the County, with rebalancing locations that Operators will need to devote a
minimum number of vehicles to on a regular basis.
14. All applicants to the License program shall include the fleet size in their application. The Operator
shall notify the County if they plan to change their fleet size two weeks before deployment.
15. Operator shall recharge all electric powered bicycles and scooters at least three times a week and
inspect, maintain, and replace them on a regular basis.
16. Operator shall collect all bicycles and scooters at least three times a week and distributed
throughout the County in accordance with a plan submitted with the License Application.
17. For purposes of maintaining, charging, inspecting, and/or rebalancing their Bicycle and Scooter
Share Fleet, the Operator shall employ within their own company, or contract with a local entity, a
workforce capable of discharging these duties. The Operator must pay its local workforce the
mean hourly wage for Bicycle Repairers in the United States, as determined by the U.S. Bureau of
Labor Statistics, but no less than $15 dollars an hour. The Operator shall also use best efforts to
work with a unionized staff.
18. Operator shall promptly repark or remove any bicycle that is parked incorrectly in any part of the
County outside of the City of Cleveland in a correct manner based on these times:
a. 7am to 7pm seven days a week, not including holidays - within three hours of receiving

 notice;
b. All other times – within 12 hours of receiving notice.
The City of Cleveland requirements for removing incorrectly parked bicycles and scooters can be
found in the City’s terms and conditions.
Data Sharing Requirements:
1. Operator shall maintain a record of maintenance activities, including but not limited to bicycle and
scooter identification number and maintenance performed. These records shall be made available
to the County, upon request.
2. Operator shall provide the County with the following data on a monthly basis if the Operator
collects such data:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Number of bicycles and scooters in circulation;
Daily, weekly, and monthly active riders;
Number of trips that began in each municipality in the County;
Number of trips that ended in each municipality in the County;
Aggregated breakdown of customers by gender and age monthly;
Bicycle and scooter usage, including total miles (daily/monthly/quarterly/annually);
Number and duration of rides/rider/day as well as rides/bike/day;
Monthly summary of bicycle and scooter distribution and GPS-based natural movement; and
Customer comments/complaints and resolution, theft/vandalism, and average repair
times.

3. Operator shall provide the County with anonymized real-time data (information that is
delivered immediately after collection) on the entire fleet, including the location of each bicycle
and scooter in the fleet, upon request.
4. Operator shall provide the County with raw data, that has not been pre-aggregated, about all
trips taken during a specific timeframe, upon request.
5. Operator should provide the County with data in the General Bikeshare Feed Specification and
Mobility Data Specification (MDS) format whenever possible.
6. Operator will not restrict the County’s use of any data shared with the County under this
section. The County may share data with any municipality that has an agreement with the
County regarding Bicycle and Scooter Share operations, any entity that has a rebalancing
location on its private property, or any governmental or quasi-governmental agency concerned
with transportation in the County, including but not limited to the Northeast Ohio Areawide
Coordinating Agency, the Ohio and U.S. Departments of Transportation, the Greater Cleveland
Regional Transit Authority, and the Cleveland Metroparks.
7. Operator shall make aggregated and anonymized trip data available to the public and other
entities not affiliated with the Operator.
8. All bicycles and scooters shall be equipped with GPS equipment and shall ping at a minimum of
every 90 seconds while in use.
9. Operator shall follow the Open Web Application Security Project (“OWASP”) guidelines/testing
best practices or equivalent industry best practices.
10. Customers shall not be required to share personal data with 3rd parties in order to use the

 services.
11. Customers must not be required to opt-in to providing access to their contacts, camera,
photos, files, and other private data in order to use the services.
12. Operator shall maintain all data for at least one year.
13. The provisions of this section shall survive the termination of this License for three years.

 