THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
FACILITIES & SPACE COMMITTEE
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES

DATE:

Monday, September 24, 2018

TIME:

4:00 p.m.

PLACE:

MetroHealth Medical Center
K107, Business Services Building

COMMITTEE
TRUSTEES:

Mr. Monnolly, Ms. Dee, Mr. Silvers, Mr. McDonald

STAFF:

W. Jones, C. Richmond, Dr. Brandt, M. Phillips, K. Botros, K. Dethloff

(ABSENT):

A. Boutros, M. Stern, B. Boulanger

GUESTS:

Sonja Rajki, Laura McBride, Kevin Ortner, Cliff Kazmierczak, Chuck Kostrub,
Marvin Daniels

Mr. Monnolly called the regular meeting of the Facilities & Space Committee to order at 4:05 p.m. The
minutes are written in a format conforming to the printed meeting agenda for the convenience of
correlation, recognizing that some of the items were discussed out of sequence.
I.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES – JULY 23, 2018 MEETING
The minutes of the July 23, 2018 Facilities and Space Committee were approved as presented.

II.

DISCUSSION ITEMS
A. Ms. Dethloff provided an update on the status of the Facilities Report to the Board.
Ms.Dethloff reported on a city water main break at the Cleveland Heights which caused a
water outage at both buildings for several hours. Cleveland Heights also experienced a
power outage due to a tree that fell onto a CEI substation. Middleburg Heights Health
Center had several elevator and emergency lighting issues. Brecksville and OBC had a
power outage and Parma experienced minor AC issues. Repairs from the flood reported
two months ago were completed.
B. Mr. Jones provided an update on the status of the Campus Transformation project to the
Board. The new parking deck structure is finished along with installation of lighting,
emergency call boxes at each corner, bicycle racks and EV charging stations are completed.
Striping for standard and oversized vehicles are completed. Elevator testing is currently
underway. A covered pedestrian walkway will be installed connecting to the cafeteria

Page 1 of 3

 Facilities & Space Committee
September 24, 2018 Meeting Minutes

Page 2 of 3
hallway on the first floor of the hospital and another entrance near the Sim Center. The
final completion of the garage is scheduled for 9/21. The garage will open in October.
Construction is underway for the widening of View Road for use as a three-lane service
road for the final campus transformation project. The road will run from the intersection of
W. 25 th Street and the I-71 ramp across the parking lot at the current “church” site to the
new garage at Englindale. With the completion of the View Road garage, this will allow
the South garage demolition to begin in November/December.
On September 26th, the Transformation team will be presenting to the Cleveland Design
Review Committee to obtain the building permits for the project. The permit for the
demolition of the existing garage has already been obtained. There also is a request to
provide a conceptual permit of the site plan and schematic permit for the project. Mr. Jones
provided a description plan for each of the floor levels within the new hospital.
III.

CONSENT ITEMS
A. Recommendation to the President and CEO of The MetroHealth System to approve the
further amended agreement with Turner Construction Company as the Construction
Manager at Risk for Campus Transformation and set the Guaranteed Maximum Price for
Package No. 1.
The Committee approved the recommendation for full Board action.
B. Recommendation to the President and CEO of The MetroHealth System to approve the
further amended Executive Engineer Services Agreement with Osborn Engineering for
Campus Transformation.
The Committee approved the recommendation for full Board action.
C. Recommendation to the President and CEO of The MetroHealth System to approve the
further amended Architectural and Engineering Services Agreement with HGA Architects
and Engineers, LLC as the Master Architect for Campus Transformation.
The Committee approved the recommendation for full Board action.
D. Recommendation to the President and CEO of The MetroHealth System to approve the
Lease to Establish a Clinical Service Location.
The Committee approved the recommendation for full Board action.
E. Recommendation to the President and CEO of The MetroHealth System to approve the the
Purchase of General Liability and Workers Compensation Insurance for the Campus
Transformation Project.
The Committee approved the recommendation for full Board action.

 Facilities & Space Committee
September 24, 2018 Meeting Minutes

Page 3 of 3

Upon unanimous roll call vote, the Committee went into Executive Session to discuss trade
secrets and real estate matters.
At the end of the executive session, the Committee reconvened the meeting in open session at
5:25 p.m.
IV.

NON-CONSENT / ACTION ITEMS
None

There being no further business to come before the Committee, the meeting was adjourned at 5:30 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,

Walter B. Jones, Jr.
Senior Vice President, Campus Transformation

 