Presiding:
Chair
Joseph M. Gingo
October 9, 2019

Call to Order

2

Report of the Chair

3

Report of the President

4

Report of the Student Trustees

5

Approval of Minutes

6

Report of the Finance & Administration Committee

7

Report of the
Academic Issues & Student Success Committee

8

Report of the Rules Committee

9

Consent Agenda Vote

10

New Business

11

Next Regular Meeting: December 11, 2019
Student Union, Room 339

12

Adjournment

Board of Trustees

1

 THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Meeting Minutes
Wednesday, August 14, 2019
Student Union, Room 339

Board Members Present:
Joseph M. Gingo, Chair
Olivia P. Demas, Vice Chair
Alfred V. Ciraldo, M.D., Vice Chair

Lewis W. Adkins, Jr.
Cindy P. Crotty
Michael J. Dowling

Thomas F. Needles
William A. Scala

Student Trustees Present:
Andrew M. Adolph
Taylor A. Bennington
Advisory Trustees Present:
Anthony J. Alexander
David W. James
Staff Officers of the Board Present:
M. Celeste Cook, Secretary; Vice President & General Counsel
John J. Reilly, Assistant Secretary; Associate Vice President & Deputy General Counsel
Administrative Officers Present:
Dr. John C. Green, Interim President
Kimberly M. Cole, Vice President, Advancement
Wayne R. Hill, Vice President and Chief of Staff
Jolene A. Lane, Chief Diversity Officer/Vice President, Inclusion and Equity
Dr. John A. Messina, Vice President, Student Affairs
Dr. Chand Midha, Interim Executive Vice President/Chief Academic Officer
Nathan J. Mortimer, Vice President, Finance and Administration/Chief Financial Officer
Dr. Rex D. Ramsier, Senior Vice President and Provost, Chief Administrative Officer
Others Present: (See Appendix A.)
REGULAR BUSINESS MEETING OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Mr. Gingo called the meeting to order at 8 a.m., and the Board adjourned into executive session on an
8-0 vote for the stated purposes of—considering employment and compensation of public employees
pursuant to O.R.C. 121.22(G)(1), considering real estate matters pursuant to O.R.C. 121.22(G)(2) and to
review for collective bargaining sessions pursuant to O.R.C. 121.22(G)(4). The meeting returned to
public session at 10:35 a.m. on an 8-0 vote.

 14 August 2019 Board Minutes – Page 2
Mr. Gingo then welcomed to the Board two new members who had been appointed by Governor
Mike DeWine for terms beginning July 2, 2019: Trustee Michael J. Dowling and Student
Trustee Taylor A. Bennington.
•

Mr. Dowling’s nine-year term on the Board will end on July 1, 2028. He holds the position of
senior vice president, external affairs at FirstEnergy Corp. He oversees local, state and
federal governmental affairs; energy policy, state regulatory affairs and market policies;
corporate affairs and community involvement; economic development; and the FirstEnergy
Political Action Committee. He is a University of Akron alumnus, having earned a B.A. in
Business and Organizational Communication degree. He joined the company, then known as
Ohio Edison, in 1986 and was named to his current position in 2011.

•

Taylor Bennington’s two-year term on the Board will end on July 1, 2021. He is a spring
2019 University of Akron graduate, having earned a Bachelor of Science in Political Science.
Presently, he is a student in the School of Law. As an undergraduate, Taylor had served two
terms as president of Undergraduate Student Government as well as having served as a
Faculty Senate senator, a member of University Council’s executive committee, a Conduct
Hearing Board member and a chief of staff for Undergraduate Student Government. Taylor
also had worked as an intern for the Ohio House of Representatives and for the Wayne
County Treasurer’s office.

Mr. Gingo then invited Mr. Dowling and Mr. Bennington to go to the head of the room, where
Ms. Cook administered the oath of office. Mr. Dowling thanked Governor DeWine for making
him his first appointment to The University of Akron’s Board of Trustees, calling it “a great
honor.” He said that the University is very special to him, his wife Karen and their family, and
that he is eager to do his part working with everyone to make it the best it can be. Mr.
Bennington also expressed his thanks to Governor DeWine as well as to Chairman Gingo and the
students of the University for entrusting him with this responsibility. Having spent the last three
years at the University in student leadership, he said that he is honored to continue to serve for
the two years ahead on the Board of Trustees, adding that “our best is yet to come, and I am
excited to be a part of that.” Mr. Gingo reiterated his welcome on behalf of the Board to Mr.
Dowling and Mr. Bennington and said that their background and experience would be of great
benefit.
REPORT OF THE CHAIR
2019-20 Board Committee Assignments
Mr. Gingo reported that one of the annual duties of the Board Chair is to make Board Committee
assignments for the new fiscal year. He thanked Trustees for their feedback with regard to their
preferences and their willingness to assume those responsibilities.

 14 August 2019 Board Minutes – Page 3
Trustees appointed to lead standing committees for 2019-2020 are:
•

Olivia Demas, Chair and Andrew M. Adolph, Vice Chair of Academic Issues & Student
Success;
o Mr. Gingo acknowledged Mr. Adolph for having presided, in Ms. Demas’ absence, as
Vice Chair of the Academic Issues and Student Success Committee at its recent meeting.

•

Cindy Crotty, Chair of Audit & Compliance;

•

Bill Scala, Chair of Finance & Administration and Personnel & Compensation;

•

Al Ciraldo, Chair of Rules; and

•

Roland Bauer, Chair of Strategic Issues.

Special committees would be led by:
•

Lewis Adkins, Chair of Safety & Facilities; and

•

Joe Gingo, Chair the Presidential Transition Committee.

Mr. Gingo said that full rosters of standing and special committee appointments, as well as
appointments to University-affiliated boards, had been circulated to Trustees in late July. These
committee assignments are posted on the Board of Trustees website.
In addition to standing and special committee assignments, Mr. Gingo announced Board liaisons
to the following legislative/representative bodies.
•

Michael Dowling is the appointed primary liaison to attend University Council meetings on
behalf of the Board of Trustees with Trustee Demas appointed as alternate.

•

Roland Bauer is the appointed primary liaison to attend Faculty Senate meetings on behalf of
the Board with Trustee Crotty as alternate.

Mr. Gingo said that all Trustees are welcome to attend these meetings and are encouraged to do
so whenever possible.
New Student Convocation
Mr. Gingo said that the freshman class of the 2019-2020 academic year would receive a formal
welcome to campus at the New Student Convocation scheduled to begin at 11:30 a.m. on Friday,
August 23 at FirstEnergy Stadium/Cub Cadet Field. He encouraged available Trustees to attend.

 14 August 2019 Board Minutes – Page 4
Ohio Trustees Conference
Mr. Gingo said that the Ohio Department of Higher Education recently had issued a “save the
date” announcement of the 2019 Ohio Trustees Conference scheduled for October 29-30. The
event will be held again on the campus of Columbus State Community College, starting with a
reception and dinner with Governor DeWine on Tuesday, October 29. Conference programming
will follow on Wednesday, October 30. He advised Trustees who plan to attend to notify the
Board office.
Mr. Gingo then concluded his report with the following statement:
“As the beginning of a new academic year approaches with classes scheduled to start on
Monday, August 26, I look forward to a renewed commitment by this Board and our
administration, faculty and staff to keep The University of Akron the best choice for our students
and a vital community partner for our region. Let us all continue to work together.”
REPORT OF THE INTERIM PRESIDENT (See Appendix D.)
REPORT OF THE STUDENT TRUSTEES
Mr. Adolph reported that he and Mr. Bennington would take part in Move In, New Student
Convocation, and the many activities planned on campus to welcome returning and new students
during the coming week. He said that it is always a pleasure to see the excitement in each of our
students as they make their way back to campus or arrive for the very first time.
He then gave some background on the academic competition teams from The University of
Akron School of Law and their many accomplishments during the past year. Trial Advocacy,
Client Counseling, and Moot Court teams compete across the region and nationwide as part of
their Akron Law experience. In addition to benefiting from national competitive exposure and
team comradery, participating students are mentored by Akron Law alumni who volunteer to
coach the teams. This gives the students access to a great network of practicing lawyers when it
comes time for them to seek employment or internship opportunities, Mr. Adolf said.
Mr. Bennington then introduced two Trial Advocacy team members, Cassandra Rosa and
Imokhai Okolo, who presented on their Akron Law experiences. Each student received a
commemorative gift from Trustees.
Mr. Gingo thanked the student-presenters and said that, as a graduate of The University of Akron
School of Law, he personally is extremely proud of their accomplishments.
ACTION ITEMS
Mr. Gingo said that, because the Board uses a consent agenda, it would hear reports for each committee
and wait to hold one vote for all actions on the consent agenda. The Board would vote on actions not

 14 August 2019 Board Minutes – Page 5
listed on the consent agenda immediately after those items are raised. All of the action and
informational items in the Board materials had been discussed in detail during committee meetings held
on Friday, August 9.
CONSIDERATION OF MINUTES (“Board of Trustees” Tab)
presented by Chair Gingo
By consensus, the proposed action to approve the minutes of the Special Board meeting of April 17; the
Presidential Search Committee meeting of June 7; the Board of Trustees meeting of June 12; the
Presidential Search Committee meetings of June 17 and 18; and the Special Board meetings of July 10,
12, 16 and 30, 2019 were placed on the consent agenda, as amended.
RESOLUTION 8-1-19 (See Appendix B.)
REPORT OF THE FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE
presented by Committee Chair Scala
•

Personnel Actions recommended by Dr. Green as amended (Tab 1)
RESOLUTION 8-2-19 (See Appendix B.)
ACTION: Scala motion on behalf of Committee, passed 8-0

•

Procurements for More Than $500,000 (Tab 2)
1. Roo Express Shuttle Service Operator (Auxiliary Fund)
An award was proposed to ABM Parking Services in the amount of its $1,548,000 bid
(approximately $516,000 annually) to operate the Roo Express Shuttle Service for the period
September 1, 2019 through August 31, 2022. Renewal upon mutual consent via two additional
two-year options could extend that period for up to four years. ABM Parking Services is the
incumbent vendor since 2008 and had provided the lowest among four bids received. The award
had been recommended by Parking and Transportation Services and the Department of
Purchasing and had been reviewed for legal form and sufficiency by the Office of General
Counsel.
2. Infrastructure Improvements - Vaults (State Capital Funds)
An award was proposed to Dan Terreri & Sons, Inc. in the amount of its $1,088,800 bid to
replace the Martin Fountain vault and rework the Computer Center vault. The award had been
recommended by Capital Planning and Facilities Management and the Department of Purchasing
as the lowest responsible bid of the two received, and would be made following review for legal
form and sufficiency by the Office of General Counsel and approval by the state Controlling
Board.
3. Medina Lab Renovation (State Capital Funds, General Fund, and Donations)
An award was proposed to Feghali Brothers, LLC in the amount of its $697,000 bid to renovate
the existing surgical technology lab at the Medina campus. The award had been recommended

 14 August 2019 Board Minutes – Page 6
by Capital Planning and Facilities Management and the Department of Purchasing as the lowest
responsible bid of the six received, and would be made following review for legal form and
sufficiency by the Office of General Counsel and approval by the state Controlling Board.
RESOLUTION 8-3-19 (See Appendix B.)
Mr. Gingo then invited Mrs. Cole to comment on the next two proposals. Mrs. Cole responded by
reiterating the University’s appreciation to Keith and Stephanie Cline and to Joe and Carrie Hete for
their generous support, as detailed respectively in the proposed naming resolutions.
•

Naming of The Keith A. Jr. and Stephanie L. Cline Athletics Leadership Academy (Tab 3a)
A resolution was proposed to name the Athletics Leadership Academy in honor of University alumni
Keith A. Jr. and Stephanie L. Cline in recognition of their commitment in support of the academy
and their devotion to Akron Athletics, The University of Akron, and its students.
RESOLUTION 8-4-19 (See Appendix B.)

•

Naming of The Joseph C. ’76 and Carrie J. Hete Technology Common (Tab 3b)
A resolution was proposed to name Room 102 in the College of Business Administration building in
honor of University alumnus Joseph C. Hete and his wife Carrie J. Hete in recognition of their gift in
support of the Technology Common near the Anthony J. Alexander Professional Development
Center.
RESOLUTION 8-5-19 (See Appendix B.)

•

Cumulative Gift and Grant Income Report for July 1, 2018 through June 30, 2019 (Tab 4)
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019, The University of Akron recorded gifts of cash,
bequests, gifts-in-kind and pledges totaling $33,842,686.
RESOLUTION 8-6-19 (See Appendix B.)

•

Purchases $25,000 to $500,000 (Tab 5a) INFORMATION ONLY

•

Purchases for More than $500,000 with prior approval (Tab 5b) INFORMATION ONLY

•

Capital Projects Report (Tab 6) INFORMATION ONLY

•

Information Technology Report (Tab 7) INFORMATION ONLY

•

Advancement Report (Tab 8) INFORMATION ONLY

•

University Communications and Marketing Report (Tab 9) INFORMATION ONLY

•

Public Liaison and Government Relations Report (TAB 10) INFORMATION ONLY

 14 August 2019 Board Minutes – Page 7
REPORT OF THE ACADEMIC ISSUES & STUDENT SUCCESS COMMITTEE
presented by Committee Chair Demas
•

Presentation: Direct Connect
Dr. John Messina presented on the Direct Connect dual admission program, a collaboration between
The University of Akron and Stark State College–Akron to provide student services and seamless
pathways that promote student success and degree attainment.
Following the presentation, Mrs. Demas thanked Academic Issues & Student Success Committee
Vice Chair Andrew Adolph for having presided in her absence at the Committee’s meeting on
Friday, August 9.

•

Curricular Changes (Tab 1)
New Programs:
Establish a 3 + 3 Bachelor of Arts in Philosophy and Juris Doctor in the Buchtel College
of Arts and Sciences, Department of Philosophy and the School of Law, proposal #1619508
This program would allow highly motivated students to complete both degrees in six years.
Establish a new Business Cognate Track in the Bachelor of Arts in Music in the Buchtel
College of Arts and Sciences, School of Music with the College of Business
Administration, proposal #17-20676
This program would prepare music students with skills in business management, grant
writing, and entrepreneurship.
RESOLUTION 8-7-19 (See Appendix B.)

•

Proposed Department Name Change (Tab 2)
The proposed name change of the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering to
the Department of Chemical, Biomolecular, and Corrosion Engineering had been
recommended by the faculty of the College of Engineering and the Faculty Senate to better
reflect the department’s mission.
RESOLUTION 8-8-19 (See Appendix B.)

•

Proposed Degree Recipients for Summer 2019 (Tab 3)
The tentative list of 742 degree candidates for summer 2019, consisting of 70 doctoral, 213
master, 352 baccalaureate and 107 associate degrees, was proposed.
RESOLUTION 8-9-19 (See Appendix B.)

•

Enrollment Management Report (Tab 4) INFORMATION ONLY

 14 August 2019 Board Minutes – Page 8
•

Research Report (Tab 5) INFORMATION ONLY

•

Student Success Report (Tab 6) INFORMATION ONLY
REPORT OF THE RULES COMMITTEE
presented by Committee Chair Ciraldo

•

Revisions to University Rule 3359-10-02, The University of Akron Bylaws of the Faculty
Senate (Tab 1)
The proposed revisions would update position titles and reflect the current Faculty Senate
election process.
RESOLUTION 8-10-19 (See Appendix B.)

•

Revisions to University Rule 3359-11-17, Conflict of Interest, Conflict of Commitment,
Scholarly Misconduct, and Ethical Conduct – Policies and Procedures (Tab 2)
The proposed revisions would (a) require the prospective submission of all employees’
annual conflict disclosure forms; and (b) eliminate an outdated and unused appeals process.
Subsequent to the Rules Committee meeting, it had been determined to add language to the
rule that review by the Office of Academic Affairs would occur within 30 days of receipt of
the conflict disclosure forms. This language would be added prior to submittal of the rule to
the state for approval.
RESOLUTION 8-11-19 (See Appendix B.)

•

Revisions to University Rule 3359-43-01, Constitution (Tab 3)
The proposed revisions would update the Undergraduate Student Government constitution to
include mission, vision and value statements.
RESOLUTION 8-12-19 (See Appendix B.)

The following three rules were proposed for rescindment because they are out of date or, because
of frequent changes in the subject area, would be better administered as department policies.
•

Rescindment of University Rule 3359-11-09, World Wide Web (Tab 4)
RESOLUTION 8-13-19 (See Appendix B.)

•

Rescindment of University Rule 3359-11-10.7, Privacy Policy (Tab 5)
RESOLUTION 8-14-19 (See Appendix B.)

•

Rescindment of University Rule. 3359-20-06.2. College Lecturer
RESOLUTION 8-15-19 (See Appendix B.)

 14 August 2019 Board Minutes – Page 9
CONSENT AGENDA VOTE
Mr. Gingo said that each of the items on the consent agenda had been thoroughly discussed at
committee meetings held the previous week and had been recommended for approval by the
appropriate committee, which also had approved the items’ addition to the consent agenda.
ACTION: Ciraldo motion, Crotty second for approval of Resolutions 8-1-19 and 8-3-19
through 8-15-19, passed 8-0.
NEW BUSINESS
•

Anthony J. Alexander Advisory Trustee Appointment (Tab 1)
Mr. Gingo made the following statement:
“As you know, Board rules provide for the appointment of Advisory Trustees to the Board of
Trustees who may serve up to two three-year terms. At the end of August, Tony Alexander
will have concluded the second of his two terms as Advisory Trustee.
Because of his invaluable contributions to this Board, and his extraordinary insights, the
Board would like to consider extending Mr. Alexander’s appointment as an Advisory Trustee
for an additional year, through August 2020.”
RESOLUTION 8-16-19 (See Appendix B.)
ACTION: Needles motion, Ciraldo second, passed 8-0.
Following the vote, Mr. Gingo thanked Mr. Alexander for his generous willingness to serve
an additional year, and he reminded Trustees of The Anthony J. Alexander Professional
Development Center ribbon-cutting and dedication ceremony on Tuesday, September 10 at
the College of Business Administration.

•

Appointment of Dr. Gary L. Miller as President of The University of Akron (Tab 2)
Mr. Gingo made the following statement:
“It is my pleasure to announce that the presidential search process, begun last December, has
come to a very satisfactory conclusion. Before I share the name of the person upon whom
we will vote in just a few minutes to become our next president, I want to emphasize the
collaborative nature of this process.
Last year, the Board voted to expand the participation and involvement of members of the
University community to gain more meaningful input in this search process. The elected
leaders of six key University constituency groups, representing all aspects of the University
community, were included in the Presidential Search Committee.
In January, the Board held discussions and conversations with leaders of other constituencies,
both internal and external, in public session.

 14 August 2019 Board Minutes – Page 10
In addition, the entire campus community—every individual—had the opportunity through
an online form to express their opinions and recommendations on the qualities and talents of
their next leader.
All of these actions lead me to believe this has been the most inclusive presidential search
process in the University’s history. Based upon the input we received and through our own
deliberations, the Board of Trustees reached consensus to offer the 18th presidency of The
University of Akron to Dr. Gary L. Miller.
Dr. Miller has an outstanding record as an effective higher education leader and consensus
builder. In addition to his current role as chancellor at the University of Wisconsin—Green
Bay, Dr. Miller also has served as:
•

Chancellor of the University of North Carolina—Wilmington;

•

Provost and vice president for academic affairs and research at Wichita State University;
and

•

Dean of the College of the Pacific at the University of the Pacific.

He brings not only two decades of senior-level higher education leadership, but also firsthand experience as a member of the teaching faculty and as a researcher.
My Board colleagues and I believe he is the right person at the right time to lead our
University.
Dr. Miller has indicated he would accept the position and assume duties in Akron on
October 1, 2019. Therefore, at this time, I would entertain a motion to adopt the resolution
naming Gary L. Miller, Ph.D., as The University of Akron’s 18th president, as outlined in the
resolution and term sheet dated August 14, 2019.”
RESOLUTION 8-17-19 (See Appendix B.)
ACTION: Moved and seconded by consensus, passed 8-0.
Following the vote, Dr. Miller stated that he is delighted to be here and to accept the Board’s invitation
to become the 18th president of The University of Akron and that he is deeply honored and privileged to
be part of the future of this great University, to be part of Akron, and, and most especially to work with
this Board of Trustees, which he praised for its “amazing work to reposition this institution and get it
ready for the future.”
Dr. Miller introduced his wife and partner Georgia and shared that they have three grown children and
five grandchildren. He reiterated his thanks to the Board for extending its trust to them to lead this
institution, and said that, before continuing with the day’s activities, he wanted to leave those in
attendance with three thoughts:

 14 August 2019 Board Minutes – Page 11
Georgia and I are here to live in Akron.
Dr. Miller said that they had enjoyed every community that they had been part of and would make a
difference here when they can, adding that one of the reasons they were so interested in this position was
because of this great city and this part of the country. He added that they actually have a lot of friends
from Akron. “So, in addition to the presidency of The University of Akron, we also will be citizens of
this community, and we think that is very important both for our wellbeing and for the University,” he
said.
Optimism
Second, Dr. Miller cited the “incredible optimism about the future of this institution” that they were able
to see during the search process in conversations with Board members, faculty and students, even while
they talked about the University’s transient challenges. Dr. Miller said that he, too, is very optimistic,
and one of the reasons he wanted to come here is that this University clearly has a bright future for these
reasons:
•

There is a clear commitment from this Board for the future of the institution, which shows in what
they have done. He said that “this University over the last year and a half has done some really hard
work, and it has laid the foundation for developing a strategy, linking that to a strong vision, and
figuring out a way to execute on that so we can move to the University of the future that we all
want.”

•

There is an excellent faculty and staff here. The productivity of this institution and the scholarly
work, teaching, and community engagement participation by the faculty and staff reflects that this is
a fine University. A fine University must be built upon excellent faculty and that is one of the things
we are excited about.

•

Also, there is Akron. This University has been fulfilling its promise to this city for nearly 150 years.
It is a great American city, with which we are familiar as I said. The future of this University
depends on our continued, deep relationship with this city and the area around it.

•

The optimism of this institution is evidenced by the fact that, at the very time that the University was
experiencing difficulties, as all Universities do, the Board chose student success as its one guiding
principle. Student success was the central thought as the Board, faculty and administration worked
over the last couple of years to reposition the University to get through its transitional problems.
That is an amazing and very important concept.

We are committed to working with you.
Dr. Miller said, “I know I cannot expect a standing ovation every time we have a Board meeting. I know
we will disagree sometimes, but we will be a team. We have student success and the welfare of this
University and this community in our minds and our hearts; that is what we are here for. I will get to
know each of you; I will try to understand what you want. We will, together with our faculty
colleagues, our administration and this community, take this University forward. I am very excited to be
here. This is a great American research university; it is going to become even greater. Go Zips!”

 14 August 2019 Board Minutes – Page 12
Mr. Gingo thanked Dr. Miller and said that the Board looks forward to a long and productive
relationship. He then announced that Interim President, Dr. John C. Green, had agreed to serve as
special assistant to the president for strategy and transition from October 1, 2019 to January 31, 2020.
Mr. Gingo added that, “Dr. Green’s exemplary service to the University, especially during this time as
our interim president, will be more formally recognized at a later date, but I want to say publicly that
this Board is extremely grateful for his commitment, dedication, and excellent work. Thank you, John,
for all you have done for this University.”
Mr. Gingo then announced that the next regular meeting of the Board of Trustees would take place on
Wednesday, October 9, 2019 with an executive session beginning at 7:30 or 8:00 a.m. Committees of
the Board would meet on Friday, October 4.
ADJOURNMENT
ACTION: Meeting adjourned by consensus at 11:30 a.m.

Joseph M. Gingo
Chair, Board of Trustees
October 9, 2019

M. Celeste Cook
Secretary, Board of Trustees

 14 August 2019 Board Minutes – Appendices

APPENDIX A: OTHERS PRESENT
Dr. Philip A. Allen, University Council
Stephen J. Allen, Senior Multimedia Producer, University Communication and Marketing
Dr. Matthew P. Akers, Public Liaison, Assistant Director, Ray C. Bliss Institute of Applied Politics
Cristine Boyd, Director, Media Relations
Anthony P. Colucci III, Contract Professional Advisory Committee
Lisa Dodge, Vice President, Sean P. Dunn & Associates LLC
Anne C. Hanson, Director, Community Relations and Engagement
Sarah J. Kelly, Associate Vice President, Human Resources/CHRO
Richard A. Kent, Electronic Technician, Department of Communication
Willy Kollman, Assistant Vice President, Alumni Relations
Robert C. Kropff, Senior Director, Integrated Communications
Dr. John A. Messina, Vice President, Student Affairs
Ruth N. Nine-Duff, Staff Employee Advisory Committee
Michele A. Novachek, Staff Employee Advisory Committee
Imokhai Okolo, Featured Student
Alan D. Parker, Contract Professional Advisory Committee
C. J. Peters, Dean, The University of Akron School of Law
Jennifer Pignolet, Akron Beacon Journal
Paula Neugebauer, Coordinator, Office of the Board of Trustees
Cassandra Rosa, Featured Student
Dr. Linda M. Saliga, Chair, Faculty Senate
Dr. Pamela A. Schulze, Akron-AAUP

 14 August 2019 Board Minutes – Appendices

APPENDIX B: RESOLUTIONS
RESOLUTION 8-1-19: Pertaining to Approval of Board Meeting Minutes
BE IT RESOLVED, That the minutes of the Special Board meeting of April 17; the Presidential
Search Committee meeting of June 7; the Board of Trustees meeting of June 12; the Presidential
Search Committee meetings of June 17 and 18; and the Special Board meetings of July 10, 12, 16
and 30, 2019 be approved as amended.
RESOLUTION 8-2-19: Pertaining to Personnel Actions
BE IT RESOLVED, That the Personnel Actions recommended by Interim President John C.
Green, dated August 4, 2019, as attached, which include but are not limited to hires, promotions,
leaves, fellowships, reclassifications, renewals, non-renewals, orders of removal, etc., be approved
as amended.
RESOLUTION 8-3-19: Acceptance of Procurements for More Than $500,000
BE IT RESOLVED, That the following recommendations presented by the Finance &
Administration Committee on August 14, 2019 be approved:
Award to ABM Parking Services a contract to operate the Roo Express Shuttle Services for the
period September 1, 2019 through August 31, 2022 in the amount of $1,548,000
Award to Dan Terreri & Sons, Inc. a contract to replace the Martin Fountain vault and rework with
Computer Center vault in the amount of $1,088,800
Award to Feghali Brothers, LLC a contract to renovate an existing surgical technology lab in the
amount of $697,000
RESOLUTION 8-4-19: Pertaining to the Naming of The Keith A. Jr. and Stephanie L. Cline
Athletics Leadership Academy
WHEREAS, Keith A. Cline, Jr. and Stephanie L. Cline are alumni of The University of Akron,
with Keith A. Cline, Jr. having graduated summa cum laude in 1992 with a Bachelor of Science
degree in Accounting and in 2002 with a Master of Business Administration in Finance; and
Stephanie Cline having graduated in 1994 with a Bachelor of Arts in Social Work; and
WHEREAS, Keith A. Cline, Jr. was a member of Delta Tau Delta fraternity and was inducted into
the Beta Gamma Sigma honorary society; and
WHEREAS, Stephanie L. Cline has been a longtime advocate for people in need, donating her
time and resources to many charitable organizations, including those that support military veterans,
caregivers and spouses, and the abolishment of human trafficking; and
WHEREAS, Keith A. Cline, Jr. has held financial management and leadership positions with
several leading U.S. retailers, including having served as the president and chief executive officer
for La Quinta, Inc., prior to being named to his current position as the president and chief

 14 August 2019 Board Minutes – Appendices

APPENDIX B: RESOLUTIONS, Page 2
executive officer for CorePoint Lodging, Inc., a publicly traded real estate investment trust, which
owns more than 300 hotels, including all La Quinta branded hotels; and
WHEREAS, Keith A. Cline, Jr. and Stephanie L. Cline have committed $1,250,000 to The
University of Akron in support of the Athletics Leadership Academy, which will offer leadership
and development training and programming for University of Akron student-athletes; Now,
Therefore,
BE IT RESOLVED, That the Athletics Leadership Academy be named The Keith A. Jr. and
Stephanie L. Cline Athletics Leadership Academy in honor of Keith A. Cline, Jr. and Stephanie L.
Cline’s support for the academy and their devotion to Akron Athletics and The University of
Akron and its students.
RESOLUTION 8-5-19: Pertaining to the Naming of The Joseph C. ’76 and Carrie J. Hete
Technology Common
WHEREAS, Joseph C. Hete is an alumnus of The University of Akron, having graduated with a
Bachelor of Science degree in Accounting in 1976; and
WHEREAS, during his distinguished business career, Joseph C. Hete has held executive positions
with ABX Air and currently serves as president and chief executive officer of Air Transport
Services Group, which, through its subsidiaries, provides: air cargo transportation; aircraft leasing,
maintenance and modification; aircraft ground crew support; aircraft parts sales; and additional
services for the air cargo transportation and package delivery industries; and
WHEREAS, Joseph C. Hete and his wife Carrie J. Hete have provided generous support to The
University of Akron since 1985, including the establishment of The Joseph C. Hete and Family
Endowed Scholarship to assist business students; and
WHEREAS, Joseph C. Hete was recognized by his alma mater in 2013 as a recipient of the Dr.
Frank L. Simonetti Distinguished Business Alumni Award, and he continues to provide leadership
to the University through his service as a member of The University of Akron Foundation Board of
Directors; and
WHEREAS, Joseph C. Hete, and Carrie J. Hete, have provided a gift to The University of Akron
in support of the Technology Common near the Anthony J. Alexander Professional Development
Center within the College of Business Administration; Now, Therefore,
BE IT RESOLVED, That Room 102 located on the first floor of the College of Business
Administration building be named The Joseph C. ’76 and Carrie J. Hete Technology Common in
honor of Joseph and Carrie Hete’s support for and steadfast devotion to the College of Business
Administration, The University of Akron, and its students.

 14 August 2019 Board Minutes – Appendices

APPENDIX B: RESOLUTIONS, Page 3
RESOLUTION 8-6-19: Acceptance of Gift Income Report for July 2018 through June 2019
BE IT RESOLVED, That the recommendation of the Finance & Administration Committee on
August 14, 2019, pertaining to acceptance of the Gift Income Report for July 2018 through June
2019, be approved.
RESOLUTION 8-7-19: Proposed Curricular Changes
BE IT RESOLVED, That the recommendations presented by the Academic Issues & Student
Success Committee on August 14, 2019 for the following curricular changes, as recommended by
the Faculty Senate, be approved.
Establish a new 3+3 Bachelor of Arts in Philosophy and Juris Doctor in the Buchtel College of
Arts and Sciences, Department of Philosophy and the School of Law
Establish a new Bachelor of Arts Track with a Business Cognate in the Buchtel College of Arts
and Sciences, School of Music
RESOLUTION 8-8-19: Proposed Name Change of the Department of Chemical and
Biomolecular Engineering to the Department of Chemical, Biomolecular, and Corrosion
Engineering
WHEREAS, The faculty of the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering have voted
to change the department name to the Department of Chemical, Biomolecular, and Corrosion
Engineering to better reflect its mission; and
WHEREAS, Both the faculty of the College of Engineering and the Faculty Senate have
recommended changing the name of the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering;
and
WHEREAS, The President and the Office of Academic Affairs concur; Now, Therefore,
BE IT RESOLVED, That the recommendation presented by the Academic Issues & Student
Success Committee on August 14, 2019 pertaining to approval of the proposed name change of the
Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering in the College of Engineering, to the
Department of Chemical, Biomolecular, and Corrosion Engineering be approved.
RESOLUTION 8-9-19: Proposed Degree Recipients for Summer 2019
BE IT RESOLVED, That the recommendation presented by the Academic Issues & Student
Success Committee on August 14, 2019 pertaining to the Proposed List of Degree Recipients for
The University of Akron Summer 2019, contingent upon candidates’ fulfillment of requirements,
be approved.

 14 August 2019 Board Minutes – Appendices

APPENDIX B: RESOLUTIONS, Page 4
RESOLUTION 8-10-19: Revisions to University Rule 3359-10-02, The University of Akron
bylaws of the faculty senate
BE IT RESOLVED, That the recommendation presented by the Rules Committee on
August 14, 2019 to revise Rule 3359-10-02 be approved.
RESOLUTION 8-11-19: Revisions to University Rule 3359-11-17, Conflict of interest, conflict
of commitment, scholarly misconduct, and ethical conduct – policies and procedures
BE IT RESOLVED, That the recommendation presented by the Rules Committee on
August 14, 2019 to revise Rule 3359-11-17 be approved.
RESOLUTION 8-12-19: Revisions to University Rule 3359-43-01, Constitution
BE IT RESOLVED, That the recommendation presented by the Rules Committee on
August 14, 2019 to revise Rule 3359-43-01 be approved.
RESOLUTION 8-13-19: Rescindment of University Rule 3359-11-09, World wide web
BE IT RESOLVED, That the recommendation presented by the Rules Committee on
August 14, 2019 to rescind Rule 3359-11-09, as this rule is deemed unnecessary, be approved.
RESOLUTION 8-14-19: Rescindment of University Rule 3359-11-10.7, Privacy policy
BE IT RESOLVED, That the recommendation presented by the Rules Committee on
August 14, 2019 to rescind Rule 3359-11-10.7, as this rule is deemed unnecessary, be approved.
RESOLUTION 8-15-19: Rescindment of University Rule 3359-20-06.2, College lecturer
BE IT RESOLVED, That the recommendation presented by the Rules Committee on
August 14, 2019 to rescind Rule 3359-20-06.2, as this rule is deemed unnecessary, be approved.
RESOLUTION 8-16-19: Anthony J. Alexander Advisory Trustee Appointment
WHEREAS, The University of Akron’s Board of Trustees adopted Rule 3359-1-10 on October 26,
2011, thereby creating the position of Advisory Trustee “to take advantage of the talents, resources
and experiences of individuals who may or may not be residents of the state of Ohio”; and
WHEREAS, Anthony J. Alexander was appointed by the Board of Trustees to serve as an
Advisory Trustee and is concluding his second three-year term; and
WHEREAS, Mr. Alexander has provided invaluable contributions and expertise to this Board
during his two terms as an Advisory Trustee; and
WHEREAS, The Board of Trustees would like to extend Mr. Alexander’s term as an Advisory
Trustee for one additional year, through August 31, 2020; Now, Therefore,

 14 August 2019 Board Minutes – Appendices

APPENDIX B: RESOLUTIONS, Page 5
BE IT RESOLVED, That Anthony J. Alexander is appointed to an additional, one-year term as an
Advisory Trustee from August 2019 through August 31 2020.
RESOLUTION 8-17-19: Appointment of Dr. Gary L. Miller as President of The University of
Akron
WHEREAS, The Board of Trustees of The University of Akron has concluded its search for the
next President of the University to succeed Interim President Dr. John C. Green; and
WHEREAS, The Board of Trustees has determined that Dr. Gary L. Miller is well suited to
assume the presidency of The University of Akron; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Miller has an outstanding record as an effective higher education leader and
consensus builder; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Miller’s decades of senior-level higher education leadership are informed by his
first-hand experience as a member of the teaching faculty and as a researcher; Now, Therefore,
BE IT RESOLVED, That the Board of Trustees appoints Dr. Gary L. Miller as the 18th President
of The University of Akron, with key terms of employment outlined in the attached Term Sheet 1;
and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, That the employment terms outlined in the Term Sheet and all
other essential terms of the employment relationship shall be more fully set forth in a Presidential
Employment Agreement, which shall be subsequently negotiated and executed and shall be subject
to formal approval of the Board of Trustees.

1

The Term Sheet attachment to Resolution 4-17-19 is included in these minutes as Appendix C.

 14 August 2019 Board Minutes – Appendices

APPENDIX C: ATTACHMENT TO RESOLUTION 8-17-19

THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
Term Sheet
The University of Akron
and
Dr. Gary L. Miller

The University of Akron (the “University”) and Dr. Gary L. Miller (“Dr. Miller” or
“President”), enter into this Term Sheet (the “Term Sheet”) as of this 14th day of August,
2019, for the employment as President of the University. A definitive President’s
Employment Agreement (the “Agreement”) containing these terms subsequently shall be
negotiated and executed. Both this Term Sheet and the Agreement shall be subject to formal
approval by the University’s Board of Trustees (the “Board”).

Terms
1.

Dr. Miller shall serve as President of The University of Akron, subject to the applicable
provisions of Ohio law and rules and regulations of the University and the Board,
including but not limited to O.A.C. 3359-01-05. He shall be the chief executive officer
for the University and shall serve as President under the supervision, and at the
discretion of the Board.

2.

The President's employment shall commence on October 1, 2019, unless otherwise
modified by agreement of the Parties (the “Effective Date”) and continue for a term of
five (5) years thereafter (the “Term”), consistent with the terms and incentives of the
Agreement. Any subsequent extension or term, and the associated details thereof, shall
be determined by a mutual written agreement of both Parties.

3.

During the Term,
a.

The President shall be provided with a base compensation of $475,000 annually
(the “Base Compensation”), subject to applicable taxes and withholdings,
which shall be subject to annual review by the Board and may be increased
during the Term of the Agreement at the sole discretion of the Board.

b.

The University shall establish and maintain for the benefit of the President a nonqualified deferred compensation plan under section 457(f) of the Internal Revenue
Code (the “457(f) Plan”). The University shall credit this Plan with $25,000 during
each year of the Agreement, provided that the President has remained continuously
employed by the University through the end of such year, during the Term of the
Agreement. All accrued deferred compensation that the University has credited to
the 457(f) Plan shall become fully vested and payable to the President in a single

 14 August 2019 Board Minutes – Appendices

APPENDIX C: ATTACHMENT TO RESOLUTION 8-17-19, Page 2
lump sum payment upon completion of the Term. If the President‘s employment
terminates for any reason before the completion of the Term, other than because of
death, permanent disability or termination without cause by the University, the
President shall forfeit all of the accrued deferred compensation and shall not be paid
any of the accrued deferred compensation.
c.

The President shall be responsible for any federal, state or local income tax
liability incurred that result from payments made as compensation or benefits
to the President pursuant to the Agreement.

4.

The President shall be a member of the administrative faculty with rank, untenured, of the
University. He shall be entitled to any and all standard benefits, subject to the terms and
conditions of the appropriate plan or policy, provided to administrative faculty with rank,
untenured, including: health insurance (dental, medical, prescription, vision and worker’s
compensation); life insurance; disability programs; retirement benefits (as elected by the
President under applicable Ohio law) under either the applicable Ohio public retirement
system or Alternative Retirement Plan (“ARP”); tax-deferred savings plans (including the
University’s 403(b) plan and 457(b) plan); flexible spending accounts; vacation and sick
leave; and fee remission.

5.

The University shall reimburse the President for reasonable moving and relocation
expenses up to an amount of $36,000, such reimbursement to be consistent with the
University’s policies concerning moving expenses. Moving and relocation expenses are
eligible for reimbursement if incurred within twelve (12) months of the Effective Date.

6.

During the Term of the Agreement, the University shall provide to the President a stipend
of $750 per month to be applied toward an automobile. Any automobile expense balance,
as well as any liability, collision, and comprehensive insurance and all additional
operational expenses associated with said automobile, shall be procured and borne by the
President.

7.

During the Term of the Agreement, the University shall provide to the President a stipend
of $3,500 per month to be applied toward housing. Any housing expense balance, as well
as any liability and comprehensive insurance and all additional operational expenses
associated with said housing, including any and all repairs, shall be procured and borne by
the President.

8.

The Board will provide the President, at the University's expense, with a family
membership at one mutually agreed upon country club in the name of (or on behalf of) the
University and shall pay monthly dues and expenses as provided under Board rules. The
parties acknowledge and agree that based upon substantiation of information to be provided
by the President, the University shall include in the President's compensation for income
tax purposes only the value attributable to the President's non-business (i.e. personal) uses
of such club. The President agrees to maintain and furnish an accounting of expenses
provided for in this Agreement in accord with standard requirements of the University.

 14 August 2019 Board Minutes – Appendices

APPENDIX C: ATTACHMENT TO RESOLUTION 8-17-19, Page 3
9.

It is expected that the President shall, from time-to-time utilize facilities on the main
campus or elsewhere, including the President’s residence, to (1) entertain various
individuals, including but not limited to dignitaries, community leaders, faculty and
other employee groups, students and student groups, friends of the University, and
political leaders; and (2) to hold receptions, meetings, fund-raising activities, and a
variety of events for mixed business and social purposes benefiting the interests of the
University. In such instances, reasonable cooking, catering, and/or housekeeping
services shall be provided to, and/or reimbursed by the University at the President's
request.

10.

The President shall be provided with a reasonable budget for staffing, entertainment and
other resources necessary for the operation of the Office of the President to carry out the
University’s development objectives as determined by the Board of Trustees. The
President shall be provided with necessary equipment (i.e. computer, printer, etc.) to
operate an office at the President’s personal residence.

11.

Travel, lodging, meals and other expenses (including reimbursement for mileage)
incurred in connection with University business by the President and his spouse shall
be reimbursed in accordance with University policy. If the President requests his
spouse to utilize her skills and talents in connection with a University-related activity
and for the direct benefit of the University, such efforts will be on a voluntary, unpaid
basis; however, expenses incurred in connection with such University-related activity
by the President’s spouse shall be reimbursed in accordance with University policy.

12.

The President may serve on one or more external, charitable or similar board positions
with the prior express approval of the Board of Trustees.

13.

As a condition of employment as President, and within ninety (90) days of the Effective
Date of employment, Dr. Miller shall have a comprehensive physical examination by a
licensed physician, mutually agreed upon by the parties. The cost of the examination and
all tests and procedures related to the examination shall be borne by the University. A
certification of his fitness for duty shall be submitted to the Board of Trustees.

14.

Upon termination of the Agreement and/or completion of the Term, the University shall
have no further obligation to the President, except as otherwise specifically required under
the Agreement. Should the President resign his position prior to the completion of the
Term other than for disability, the President will be subject to a liquidated damages clause.

15.

This Term Sheet and the resulting Agreement shall be subject to the applicable
provisions of Chapter 3345 of the Ohio Revised Code, including the performance
evaluation, suspension of authority, duties and pay, and termination provisions
required by Ohio Revised Code Section 3345.77. The Board shall conduct annual
performance evaluations and shall include discussions of same with the President. The
President shall provide such oral and written reports as may be required by the Board
to aid in conducting such job performance reviews. The President shall comply with
all provisions of Ohio's Ethics Laws.

 14 August 2019 Board Minutes – Appendices

APPENDIX C: ATTACHMENT TO RESOLUTION 8-17-19, Page 4
16.

Payment under this Term Sheet or subsequent Agreement is subject to appropriation
of funds by the Ohio Legislature and to the determination of the adequacy of such
funds for that purpose by the Board of Trustees. However, the Parties agree and
understand that funding for the University comes from several sources other than
appropriations by the State of Ohio. It is not the intent of the Board of Trustees to use
any reduction in appropriations as a reason to reduce compensation under this Term
Sheet or subsequent Agreement if other funds are available for such use.

17.

The Parties agree to prepare and sign an Agreement, which shall include under
what conditions the Board of Trustees may terminate the Agreement “for cause”
and “without cause,” and under which the President may terminate the Agreement,
with and without incurring a financial penalty. However, the Parties intend to be
bound, and are bound, by the terms of this Term Sheet, until such time as it is
replaced by the Agreement or is amended or superseded by a further written
agreement signed by both Parties. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the University
may terminate this Term Sheet, without any further liability or obligation
thereunder, if the President is found to have engaged in any one or more of the
following before the Agreement is in place: (a) acts or omissions of gross negligence
or willful malfeasance in the performance of duties as President; (b) conviction of a
felony, or a guilty or no contest plea to a felony charge; (c) acts or omissions that
materially harm or reflect negatively upon the University undertaken or omitted
knowingly; (d) material misrepresentation of credentials or background; or, (e) a
knowing and material violation of Ohio Ethics Laws. This “for cause” provision
shall be replaced by a mutually-agreed provision in the Agreement.

AGREED:

By:

By:
Joseph M. Gingo
Chair, Board of Trustees
The University of Akron

Date:

Dr. Gary L. Miller
President

Date:

 14 August 2019 Board Minutes – Appendices

APPENDIX D: REPORT OF THE INTERIM PRESIDENT
The last 15 months have been eventful, and the road ahead promises both changes and challenges.
I would like to review several key elements in each category, beginning with changes.
Changes
New Personnel
A year ago, we identified areas of investment for our academic programs, and that has translated
into the hiring of 30 new faculty members, most of whom to tenure track positions, to be on
campus this fall. We anticipate some additional faculty searches beginning in the fall for faculty
who will be on campus in the fall of 2020.
There also will be some personnel changes at the leadership level. As planned, the search for a
new chief academic officer will begin in the fall semester. In addition, we will soon begin
searches for deans in the colleges of:
•
•
•
•

Business;
Education;
Health Professions; and
Arts & Sciences.

Action Plans
For the first time in the 32 years that I have been at The University of Akron, we finally have a
plan that is not only aspirational, but actionable as well. I want to thank everyone on campus and
the members of the Board for their contribution to the action planning. As was arranged when the
action planning began, we will begin the cycle of planning this fall by updating the action plans
created last year at every level of the University.
Success in Budgeting
One of the great advantages of the action plan is that we used it to make tough strategic choices
within our Fiscal Year 2020 budget. In doing so, we have been able to reduce the structural deficit
of the University by an estimated $10 million while funding the priorities identified in the action
plans.
Faculty Workload Guidelines
There has been an extensive effort to update and implement our workload guidelines. We have had
conversations with deans, chairs, school directors and other campus leaders. We have made
numerous revisions to the document reflecting their input. The consultation will go on for the
remainder of the summer, and we will complete the process and implement the workload
guidelines in the fall.

 14 August 2019 Board Minutes – Appendices

APPENDIX D: REPORT OF THE INTERIM PRESIDENT, Page 2
Challenges
Enrollment
Recruitment of new students is absolutely vital to our continuing success, of course, and we have
made that one of our key priorities. The environment for recruiting new students has gotten
steadily more competitive throughout the state of Ohio. We may continue to experience a decline
in enrollment this fall. There are still a few weeks before school begins, and we have high hopes
that our numbers will improve. Everyone associated with the University needs to continue their
efforts to attract new students to our campus.
Persistence, Retention & Completion
These metrics are the low-hanging fruit that everyone needs to help harvest. If we improve these
rates, it will dramatically offset the effects of the strong competition for recruiting new students.
Each one of us needs to ask ourselves, “How can I help with the success of the students whom we
have already recruited?” In this regard, I look forward to the report of the Joint Committee on
Recruitment, Persistence and Graduation, which will make its recommendations public in
September.
Revenue
In the year ahead we will once again be challenged to operate with less revenue than anticipated.
Thus, we may have to do a bit of belt-tightening to the operating budget again this fiscal year.
The way to lessen the discomfort of that squeeze is to spread it out as thinly as possible. That
means that I am asking everyone, at every level, to find new ways to control expenditures.
Reorganization
Earlier this year we decided to pause our campus discussions of possible reorganization plans for
our academic units. The idea was to give administrators and faculty half a year to develop
alternate approaches and ideas for those reorganizations proposed back in February. That sixmonth pause is nearly concluded, and I will report on potential next steps shortly.
Conclusion
Earlier I mentioned that each of us needs to ask ourselves “How can I help improve the
University?” And though he may not appreciate the attention, I would like to point out that our
own chairman, Mr. Gingo, has responded to that question personally. He and his wife Linda have
established an endowed scholarship in the College of Engineering. On behalf of our University, I
would like to recognize Joe and Linda for their generosity in helping our students.
Joe, you do have some competition in this regard. Last year, the Berry family created a
scholarship fund for the students who are Zippy on campus and at athletic events. This year, the
family has added to the James R. and Phyllis C. Berry Zippy Endowed Scholarship.

 14 August 2019 Board Minutes – Appendices

APPENDIX D: REPORT OF THE INTERIM PRESIDENT, Page 3
In the 2019-2020 academic year, nine students who help bring Zippy to life will receive
scholarships from the endowment. I want to thank Joe, the Berry family, and all our many donors
for their support of our students.
Finally, I would like to note that the fall semester is nearly upon us again. I personally have
witnessed the “academic change in seasons” for nearly four decades professionally—and even
longer if you count my years as a student. It is kind of interesting that I have literally spent my
entire life in school!
I truly love the cycle of education, the beginning, the hard work, the completion, the rest ... and
then the beginning again. To me, this is one of the most wonderful aspects of academic life.
When we love something, we try to preserve it. The hard irony for many of us in higher education
is that to preserve this way of life, we must sometimes be willing to change aspects of it.
Next spring, The University of Akron will celebrate the 150th anniversary as an institution of
higher education. Its history is one of preservation through change, meeting the constant
challenges of a diverse and dynamic world.
The changes and challenges I laid out earlier in my remarks continue that process of preservation
and renewal. We owe it to those who came before us, and to those who will follow us, to preserve
this thing that we truly love.

 14 August 2019 Board Minutes – Appendices

APPENDIX E: INTRODUCTIONS - FEATURED STUDENTS
IMOKHAI OKOLO
Imokhai Okolo is a third-year student at The University of Akron School of Law. While attending
law school, Imokhai has been actively involved with the Akron Law Trial Team, was an assistant
educator for the Akron Law Review, was the student coordinator for the Driver’s License Re-entry
Clinic, and served as the president of the Black Law Students Association. He presently serves as
an Academic Success fellow.
Outside of law school, Imokhai is actively involved with community organizing for the Akron
Organizing Collaborative and is a founding member of Unleashing Black Minds, a non-profit
organization striving to mentor young black men in Northeast Ohio. He also coaches mock trial at
Case Western Reserve University and serves in leadership roles for the Akron Urban League
Young Professionals and the Summit County Young Democrats. Over the past year, Imokhai was
a summer associate at Jones Day, Thompson Hine, and a legal extern for Judge Solomon Oliver,
who sits on the federal bench.
CASSANDRA ROSA
Cassandra is a part-time, third-year law student who will graduate in December 2019. She is from
Brunswick, Ohio and is the first person in her family to attend college. Cassandra has served as
the president of the Law Association for Women and Asian Hispanic Law Students Association,
and served on the Dean's Student Advisory Committee for the School of Law. Cassandra also is a
certified legal intern for the Canton City Prosecutor’s Office.

 THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
PRESIDENTIAL TRANSITION COMMITTEE
Meeting Minutes
Tuesday, September 3, 2019
Student Union, Room 339
Committee Members Present:
Joseph M. Gingo, Committee Chair
Lewis W. Adkins, Jr.*
Alfred V. Ciraldo
Olivia P. Demas
Taylor A. Bennington
*Joined meeting at 7:06 a.m.

Other Trustees Present:
Roland H. Bauer
Michael J. Dowling**
William A. Scala
Andrew M. Adolph***
**Left meeting at 8 a.m.
***Left meeting at 8:30 a.m.

Staff Officers of the Board Present:
M. Celeste Cook, Secretary; Vice President & General Counsel
Administrative Officers Present:
Kimberly M. Cole, Vice President, Advancement
Wayne R. Hill, Vice President and Chief of Staff (via teleconference)
Jolene A. Lane, Chief Diversity Officer/Vice President, Inclusion and Equity
Others Present:
Dr. Matthew P. Akers, Public Liaison/Asst. Director, Ray C. Bliss Institute of Applied Politics
Anne C. Hanson, Director, Community Relations and Engagement
MEETING OF THE PRESIDENTIAL TRANSITION COMMITTEE
Mr. Gingo called the meeting to order at 7 a.m. The Committee adjourned into executive session
on a 6-0 vote for the stated purpose of considering the appointment or employment of a public
employee pursuant to O.R.C. 121.22(G)(1). The meeting returned to public session at 10 a.m. on
a vote of 6-0.
ACTION: Meeting adjourned by consensus at 10 a.m.

 3 September 2019 Presidential Transition Committee Meeting Minutes – Page 2

Joseph M. Gingo
Chair, Presidential Search Committee
October 9, 2019

M. Celeste Cook
Secretary, Board of Trustees

 THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SAFETY AND FACILITIES SPECIAL COMMITTEE
Meeting Minutes
Monday, September 23, 2019
Student Union, Room 339
Committee Members Present:
Lewis W. Adkins, Jr., Committee Chair
Roland H. Bauer
William A. Scala
Taylor A. Bennington
Joseph M. Gingo, ex officio*
*Joined meeting at 2:12 p.m.

Other Trustees Present:
Andrew M. Adolph
Staff Officers of the Board Present:
M. Celeste Cook, Secretary; Vice President and General Counsel
Administrative Officers Present:
Wayne R. Hill, Vice President and Chief of Staff
Nathan J. Mortimer, Vice President, Finance and Administration/Chief Financial Officer
Dr. Rex D. Ramsier, Executive Vice President/Chief Administrative Officer
Others Present:
Chief Kenneth R. Ball, Akron Police Department
Charles A. Brown, Deputy Mayor, Public Safety, City of Akron
Jason Dodson, Of Council, Roetzel & Andress LPA
Maj. Dale E Gooding, Jr., Assistant Chief, University Police Department
James J. Hardy, Assistant to the Mayor, Deputy Mayor for Integrated Development, City of
Akron
Robert C. Kropff, Senior Director, Integrated Communication, The University of Akron
Brian Nelson, Chief of Staff to Executive Ilene Shapiro, County of Summit
Matthew J. Schafer, Director, Marketing and Creative Services, The University of Akron
The Hon. Ilene Shapiro, Executive, County of Summit
Dennis Tubbs, Deputy Director, Planning/GIS Division, County of Summit
Chief James P. Weber, University Police Department; Assistant Vice President, Campus Safety
MEETING OF THE SAFETY AND FACILITIES SPECIAL COMMITTEE
Mr. Adkins called the meeting to order at 2:09 p.m. The Committee adjourned into executive
session on a 3-0 vote for the stated purpose of considering real estate matters, pursuant to O.R.C.
121.22(G)(2). The meeting returned to public session at 3:39 p.m. on a vote of 4-0.

 23 September 2019 Safety and Facilities Special Committee Meeting Minutes – Page 2
ACTION: Meeting adjourned by consensus at 3:39 p.m.

Lewis W. Adkins, Jr.
Chair, Safety and Facilities Special Committee
October 9, 2019

M. Celeste Cook
Secretary, Board of Trustees

 THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
RESOLUTION 10- -19
Pertaining to Approval of Board Meeting Minutes

BE IT RESOLVED, That the minutes of the Board of Trustees meeting of August 14; the
Presidential Transition Committee meeting of September 3; and the Safety and Facilities Special
Committee meeting of September 23, 2019 be approved.

M. Celeste Cook, Secretary
Board of Trustees

October 9, 2019

 1

Personnel Actions

Action Items for Consent Agenda Consideration:
October 9, 2019
Board Meeting
Presiding:
William A. Scala

5
6
7
8
9

*Financial Report for the Fiscal Year Ended
June 30, 2019

*Procurements for More than $500,000
Real Estate
a) *Former Ballet Center
b) *503 Vine Street
c) Property Transaction Authority
*Outsourced Chief Investment Officer (OCIO)

*Defined Contribution Plans: Administrative and
Fiduciary Oversight
Naming Opportunities:
a) *The Dr. Florence L. Denmark Gallery of Social
Change
b) *The Lynn Rodeman Metzger Galleries
*Cumulative Gift and Grant Income Report for
July 1 through August 31, 2019

For Information Only:

10
11
*

Purchases
a) $25,000 to $500,000 Report
b) University P-Cards
Capital Projects Report

CONSENT AGENDA;
ITEMS 2, 3, 4, 5a, 5b, 6, 7, 8a, 8b, 9

Finance & Administration

2
3
4

*Investment Report for the Fiscal Year Ended
June 30 2019

 For Information Only (continued):

October 4, 2019
Committee Meeting
Presiding:

Information Technology Report

Advancement Report

University Communications and Marketing Report

Government Relations Report

Finance & Administration

William A. Scala

12
13
14
15

 FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE
TAB 1

PERSONNEL

THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING

October 9, 2019

 SUMMARY REPORT FOR EMPLOYEE PERSONNEL ACTIONS
EMPLOYEE PERSONNEL ACTIONS
EMPLOYEE PERSONNEL ACTIONS ADDENDUM
ORGANIZATIONAL/DEPARTMENT NAME CHANGE
UNCLASSIFIED CLASSIFICATION CHANGES
CLASSIFIED CLASSIFICATION CHANGES
In accordance with University Rules 3359-1-05 and 3359-9-01, adopted December 5,
2018, applicable personnel matters concerning faculty and staff are listed separately in
the attached, and are recommended for the action indicated for each individual and to
be effective as noted.
Pay grade assigned only to contract professional and unclassified exempt and
nonexempt positions.

October 9, 2019

 Human Resources
Summary Report of Personnel Actions for Board of Trustees
October 9, 2019
The following information is provided to summarize significant personnel actions
contained in the employee personnel actions report and addendum:
Separations – 5
Resignations 3 Total – 1 Faculty, 1 Staff and 1 Contract Professional
Retirements 2 Total – 2 Faculty
Retire/Rehire Actions
University Rule 3359-11-15 provides that current employees can retire from the University
and request approval to return to work in the same position for up to one year at a reduced
salary of 80 percent.
There is one action of retire rehire to report:
 Schuller, Gary, Professor, Survey and Mapping Technology, College of Applied
Science and Technology
At this time, there are three approved retire/rehire agreements in place.
Personnel Actions Subject to University Rule 3359-9-01
University Rule 3359-9-01 provides that special conditions of employment not otherwise
included in the routine personnel reports provided at Board meetings, such as financial
or other commitments by the University in the amount of ten thousand dollars or more
beyond the individual’s base salary and regular employee benefits, including but not
limited to “start-up” funding for research, multi-year employment terms, provision for
automobile, stipend, one-time payments, liquidated damages, deferred compensation,
etc., must be made subject to Board approval.
There is one personnel action subject to university rule 3359-9-01 to report:
 Schultz, Mark; Professor of Law, Goodyear Chair Intellectual Property and Director of
the Center for Intellectual Property Law and Technology; School of Law – $10,000 for
research, travel and other professional expenses relating to Goodyear Chair
appointment.

1

 Name

Job/Dept/Job Function

Effective
Date

Salary/Term

Comments

EMPLOYEE PERSONNEL ACTIONS
Office of the President
Change
Hill, Wayne R.

Vice President/Chief of
Staff/Office of the
President/Contract Professional

08/21/19

$194,361.00
12 mo

Title change from Vice President/Chief
Communications & Marketing Officer

Campbell, Timothy

Director, Strength &
Conditioning/Office of
Athletics/Contract Professional

07/24/19

$8,703.00
one time payment

Payment for working men's soccer camps

Hanna, Thomas C.

Head Volleyball Coach/Office of
Athletics/Contract Professional

07/24/19

$1,000.00
one time payment

Payment for American Volleyball Coaches
Association team academic award per
employment contract

Peresie, Brian

Head Women's Swimming &
Diving Coach/Office of
Athletics/Contract Professional

07/15/19

$9,000.00
one time payment

Payment for one US World Championships
qualifier ($2,500.00); one US World
University Games qualifier ($1,500.00);
five Scholar Athlete awards ($5,000.00)
per employment contract

Du, Shirong

Lecturer/UA Solutions/Faculty

09/08/19
10/06/19

$8,160.00
for the period

Additional pay for part-time teaching
assignment

Kandray, Daniel E.

Lecturer/UA Solutions/Faculty

08/25/19
12/14/19

$6,000.00
for the period

Additional pay for part-time teaching
assignment

Matyasovsky, Matthew

Senior Institutional Research
Information Officer/Institutional
Research/Contract Professional

09/30/19

$77,000.00
12 mo

Appointment

Executive Director, International
Recruitment/The International
Center/Contract Professional

08/30/19

$108,150.00
12 mo

Resignation

Office of Athletics
Appointment/Reappointment

Office of Academic Affairs
Appointment/Reappointment

Separation
Yates, John P.

10092019 BOT Personnel Actions - Page 1

10/09/2019.1
Page 1

 Job/Dept/Job Function

Effective
Date

Salary/Term

Comments

Grove, Melinda

Assistant Lecturer/Office of
Student Affairs/Faculty

08/26/19
12/22/19

$1,680.96
fall semester

Additional pay for part-time teaching
assignment

McCann, Peggy L.

Senior Lecturer/Student Success
Center/Faculty

08/26/19
12/22/19

$3,296.00
fall semester

Additional pay for part-time teaching
assignment

Torgler, William E.

Associate Lecturer/Office of
Student Affairs/Faculty

08/26/19
12/22/19

$1,821.22
fall semester

Additional pay for part-time teaching
assignment

07/01/19
12/31/19

$110,313.00
12 mo

Extension of temporary job reclassification

Cyber Security
Analyst/Information Technology
Services/Staff

09/09/19

$3,115.38
biweekly

Appointment

Business Intelligence
Analyst/Application Systems
Services/Staff

08/30/19

$3,208.84
biweekly

Resignation

08/26/19
06/30/20

$181,159.00
12 mo

Temporary job reclassification; salary
change from $142,520.00/12 mo;
relinquish administrative stipend for
Interim Director, Research Administration
assignment

Name
Division of Student Affairs
Appointment/Reappointment

Office of Capital Planning & Facilities Management
Appointment/Reappointment
Myers, Stephen L.

Interim Chief Planning &
Facilities Officer/Capital Planning
& Facilities Management/Contract
Professional

Office of Information Technology Services
Appointment/Reappointment
McCumber, David

Separation
Bush, Beverly

Research Administration & Technology Transfer
Change
Allen, Philip A.

Interim Director, Research
Administration; Professor,
Psychology; Senior Fellow,
Institute for Life-Span
Development &
Gerontology/Office of Research
Administration/Faculty

10092019 BOT Personnel Actions - Page 2

10/09/2019.1
Page 2

 Name

Job/Dept/Job Function

Effective
Date

Salary/Term

Comments

Chase, George G.

Interim Director of Research
Initiatives; Professor, Chemical,
Biomolecular & Corrosion
Engineering/Office of Research
Administration/Faculty

08/26/19
06/30/20

$203,976.00
12 mo

Temporary job reclassification; salary
change from $160,471.00/9 mo; basis
change from 9 to 12 mo; relinquish
additional title and administrative stipend
for Interim Director, Research assignment

Barton, Hazel A.

Professor - Summer/Department of
Biology/Faculty

08/01/19
08/31/19

$1,526.25
for the period

Payment for summer administrative duties

Bisconti, Toni L.

Associate Professor Summer/Psychology/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$8,200.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Blackledge, Todd A.

Professor, Biology/Department of
Biology/Faculty (BUF)

05/15/19

$312.50
one time payment

Payment for work at Biomimicry Research
and Innovation Center as subject matter
expert

05/16/19

$1,015.63
one time payment

Payment for work at Biomimicry Research
and Innovation Center as subject matter
expert

Buchtel College of Arts & Sciences
Appointment/Reappointment

Boika, Aliaksei

Assistant Professor Summer/Department of
Chemistry/Faculty

08/01/19
08/31/19

$8,396.07
for the period

Payment for grant-funded summer research

Buldum, Alper

Professor - Summer/Department of
Chemistry/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$8,550.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Chura, Patrick J.

Professor - Summer/Department of
English/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$7,980.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Donovan, William J.

Associate Professor Summer/Department of
Chemistry/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$12,300.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Duff, Robert J.

Professor, Biology; Director,
Integrated Bioscience
Program/Department of
Biology/Faculty (BUF)

08/26/19
05/17/20

$4,500.00
9 mo
(stipend)

Temporary additional title and
administrative stipend for Director
assignment; base salary is $89,421.00/9
mo

Elicker, Joelle D.

Associate Professor Summer/Psychology/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$8,200.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

10092019 BOT Personnel Actions - Page 3

10/09/2019.1
Page 3

 Name

Job/Dept/Job Function

Effective
Date

Salary/Term

Comments

Feltey, Kathryn M.

Associate Professor Summer/Department of
Sociology/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$6,150.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Hixson, Walter L.

Distinguished Professor Summer/Department of
History/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$10,431.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

07/15/19
08/18/19

$4,731.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Kaut, Kevin P.

Professor - Summer/Psychology/
Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$228.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Lashbrook, Laurie E.

Associate Professor Summer/School of Music/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$6,150.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Lin, Yang Y.

Professor - Summer/School of
Communication/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$17,100.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Modarelli, David A.

Professor - Summer/Department of
Chemistry/Faculty

07/01/19
07/07/19

$1,800.00
for the period

Payment for summer research

Niewiarowski, Peter H.

Professor, Biology/Department of
Biology/Faculty (BUF)

04/08/19

$781.26
one time payment

Payment for work at Biomimicry Research
and Innovation Center as subject matter
expert

Professor - Summer/Department of
Biology/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$11,400.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

08/18/19

$10,000.00
one time payment

Payment for summer research with the
Biomimicry Research and Innovation
Center

Sheng, Michael M.

Professor - Summer/Department of
History/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$10,431.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Snell, Andrea F.

Associate Professor Summer/Psychology/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$8,200.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Sotnak, Eric

Associate Professor Summer/Department of
Philosophy/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$6,150.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

10092019 BOT Personnel Actions - Page 4

10/09/2019.1
Page 4

 Name

Job/Dept/Job Function

Effective
Date

Salary/Term

Comments

Stakleff, Simon

NMR System
Engineer/Department of
Chemistry/Staff

08/01/19
06/30/20

$153.85
biweekly
(stipend)

Temporary administrative stipend for
continuation of additional job duties in the
Magnetic Resonance Center; base salary is
$3,619.60/biweekly

Tokar, David M.

Professor - Summer/Psychology/
Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$8,759.00
summer session

Payment for grant-funded summer research

Wesdemiotis, Chrys

Distinguished Professor Summer/Department of
Chemistry/Faculty

08/05/19
08/18/19

$7,969.90
for the period

Payment for grant-funded summer research

Wilson, Gregory

Professor - Summer/Department of
History/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$11,400.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Associate Professor,
Geosciences/Department of
Geosciences/Faculty (BUF)

05/31/20

$84,785.00
9 mo

Retirement; participating in Voluntary
Separation or Retirement Program

Calderon, Thomas G.

Professor - Summer/George W.
Daverio School of
Accountancy/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$14,962.50
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Conrad, Edward J.

Associate Professor Summer/George W. Daverio
School of Accountancy/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$10,147.50
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Djuric, Vanja

Assistant Professor of Practice Summer/Department of
Marketing/Faculty (BUF)

07/15/19
08/18/19

$7,906.25
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Gehani, R. Ray

Associate Professor Summer/Department of
Management/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$6,150.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Gerber, Lissia K.

Associate Lecturer/Department of
Management/Faculty

08/26/19
12/22/19

$2,943.78
fall semester

Additional pay for part-time teaching
assignment

Renna, Francesco

Associate Professor Summer/Department of
Economics/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$6,150.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Separation
Barrett, Linda R.

College of Business Administration
Appointment/Reappointment

10092019 BOT Personnel Actions - Page 5

10/09/2019.1
Page 5

 Name

Job/Dept/Job Function

Effective
Date

Salary/Term

Comments

Assistant Professor,
Accounting/George W. Daverio
School of Accountancy/Faculty
(BUF)

08/26/19
05/17/20

$137,378.00
9 mo

100% leave without compensation

Leave
Hinchliffe, Sarah A.

LeBron James Family Foundation College of Education
Appointment/Reappointment
Broadway, Francis S.

Professor - Summer/Department of
Curricular & Instructional
Studies/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$7,980.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Lenhart, Lisa A.

Professor - Summer/Department of
Curricular & Instructional
Studies/Faculty

06/29/19

$5,000.00
one time payment

Payment for grant-funded research

Mudrey-Camino, Renee

Associate Professor Summer/Department of
Educational Foundations &
Leadership/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$6,150.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Vakil, Shernavaz

Professor - Summer/Department of
Curricular & Instructional
Studies/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$570.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Abbas, Ala R.

Professor - Summer/Department of
Civil Engineering/Faculty

07/01/19
07/31/19

$13,599.72
for the period

Payment for grant-funded summer research

Gao, Xiaosheng

Professor, Mechanical
Engineering; Associate Chair,
Graduate Studies/Department of
Mechanical Engineering/Faculty
(BUF)

08/26/19
05/22/20

$2,500.00
9 mo
(stipend)

Extension of temporary additional title and
administrative stipend for Associate Chair
assignment; base salary is $117,641.00/9
mo

Gupta, Rajeev K.

Assistant Professor Summer/Department of Chemical,
Biomolecular & Corrosion
Engineering/Faculty

08/01/19
08/24/19

$7,883.75
for the period

Payment for grant-funded summer research

Ju, Lu-Kwang

Distinguished Professor Summer/Department of Chemical,
Biomolecular & Corrosion
Engineering/Faculty

07/01/19
07/31/19

$21,908.00
for the period

Payment for grant-funded summer research

College of Engineering
Appointment/Reappointment

10092019 BOT Personnel Actions - Page 6

10/09/2019.1
Page 6

 Name

Job/Dept/Job Function

Effective
Date

Salary/Term

Comments

Kannan, Manigandan

Visiting Associate Professor of
Engineering Practice/Department
of Mechanical
Engineering/Faculty

08/26/19
09/01/19

$294.12
for the period

Additional pay for part-time teaching
assignment

Luo, Zhe J.

Assistant Professor Summer/Department of
Mechanical Engineering/Faculty

08/01/19
08/25/19

$7,849.77
for the period

Payment for start-up funded research

Mahajan, Ajay M.

Professor - Summer/Department of
Mechanical Engineering/Faculty

07/29/19
08/11/19

$7,935.00
for the period

Payment for reimbursed research time

08/12/19
08/18/19

$2,865.00
for the period

Payment for grant-funded summer research

Makki, Nidaa

Associate Professor Summer/Department of Civil
Engineering/Faculty

08/13/19
08/20/19

$1,957.00
for the period

Payment for grant-funded summer research

Martinez Bastidas, David

Associate Professor, Chemical,
Biomolecular & Corrosion
Engineering/Department of
Chemical, Biomolecular &
Corrosion Engineering/Faculty

05/13/19
05/19/19

$1,600.00
for the period

Additional pay for part-time grant-funded
research assignment

05/15/19
05/20/19

$1,995.00
for the period

Additional pay for part-time grant-funded
research assignment

Patnaik, Anil

Professor - Summer/Department of
Civil Engineering/Faculty

07/22/19
08/25/19

$16,052.30
for the period

Payment for reimbursed research time

Sastry, Shivakumar

Professor - Summer/Department of
Electrical & Computer
Engineering/Faculty

07/30/19
08/25/19

$14,250.00
for the period

Payment for grant-funded Director of
Strategic Initiatives duties

Sawyer, Scott D.

Associate Professor, Mechanical
Engineering; Associate Chair,
Undergraduate
Studies/Department of Mechanical
Engineering/Faculty (BUF)

08/26/19
05/17/20

$2,500.00
9 mo
(stipend)

Extension of temporary additional title and
administrative stipend for Associate Chair
assignment; title change from Associate
Director, Undergraduate Studies; base
salary is $96,983.00/9 mo

Wong, Shing-Chung J.

Professor - Summer/Department of
Mechanical Engineering/Faculty

08/05/19
08/25/19

$7,194.00
for the period

Payment for grant-funded summer research

10092019 BOT Personnel Actions - Page 7

10/09/2019.1
Page 7

 Name

Job/Dept/Job Function

Effective
Date

Salary/Term

Comments

Ye, Chang C.

Assistant Professor Summer/Department of
Mechanical Engineering/Faculty

07/03/19
07/24/19

$7,256.00
for the period

Payment for grant-funded summer research

Research Assistant Professor,
Civil Engineering/Department of
Civil Engineering/Faculty

06/01/19
08/31/19

$100,997.00
12 mo

Amend action approved at June 12, 2019
Board of Trustees meeting; date change
from 06/01/19-08/29/20

Campbell, Timothy

Assistant Lecturer/Department of
Sport Science & Wellness
Education/Faculty

08/26/19
12/22/19

$2,006.25
fall semester

Additional pay for part-time teaching
assignment

Dickie, Jill L.

Professor - Summer/School of
Social Work/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$8,550.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Professor, Social Work/School of
Social Work/Faculty (BUF)

08/26/19
05/17/20

$9,120.00
9 mo
(stipend)

Extension of temporary stipend for
teaching 30 load hours; base salary is
$89,522.00/9 mo

Haas, Marc

Assistant Professor/Division of
Allied Health Technology/Faculty

08/26/19
05/17/20

$7,680.00
9 mo
(stipend)

Extension of temporary stipend for
teaching 30 load hours; base salary is
$73,097.00/9 mo

Juravich, Matthew

Associate Professor Summer/Department of Sport
Science & Wellness
Education/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$8,200.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Kornspan, Alan S.

Professor - Summer/Department of
Sport Science & Wellness
Education/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$3,562.50
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Lee, Seungbum

Associate Professor Summer/Department of Sport
Science & Wellness
Education/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$6,355.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Otterstetter, Ronald

Professor - Summer/Department of
Sport Science & Wellness
Education/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$8,550.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Change
Shiller, Paul J.

College of Health Professions
Appointment/Reappointment

10092019 BOT Personnel Actions - Page 8

10/09/2019.1
Page 8

 Name

Job/Dept/Job Function

Effective
Date

Salary/Term

Comments

Owen, Cheryl L.

Professor of Instruction Summer/School of
Nursing/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$10,725.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Owens, Delila

Associate Professor Summer/School of
Counseling/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$6,150.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Patton, Rikki A.

Associate Professor Summer/School of
Counseling/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$6,150.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Pinheiro, Victor E.

Professor - Summer/Department of
Sport Science & Wellness
Education/Faculty

07/01/19
07/31/19

$1,909.50
for the period

Payment for initial online teaching

07/15/19
08/18/19

$5,700.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Scotto, Carol J.

Associate Professor Summer/School of
Nursing/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$6,150.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Shanks, Linda C.

Associate Professor Summer/School of
Nursing/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$8,200.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Sigal Papp, Kathern L.

Senior Lecturer/School of SpeechLanguage Pathology &
Audiology/Faculty

08/26/19
12/22/19

$5,042.88
fall semester

Additional pay for part-time teaching
assignment

Wissmar, Carrie

Associate Professor of Instruction Summer/School of
Nursing/Faculty (BUF)

07/15/19
08/18/19

$10,500.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Zhao, Baomei

Associate Professor Summer/School of Social
Work/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$5,125.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Special Lecturer/Williams Honors
College, Office of the
Dean/Faculty

08/26/19
12/22/19

$3,000.00
fall semester

Additional pay for part-time teaching
assignment

Williams Honors College
Appointment/Reappointment
Brown, Robyn K.

10092019 BOT Personnel Actions - Page 9

10/09/2019.1
Page 9

 Name

Job/Dept/Job Function

Effective
Date

Salary/Term

Comments

Senior Lecturer/Law Instruction/Faculty

08/26/19
12/22/19

$5,253.00
fall semester

Additional pay for part-time teaching
assignment

Professor - Summer/Law Instruction/Faculty

07/29/19
08/25/19

$8,000.00
for the period

Amend action approved at June 12, 2019
Board of Trustees meeting; date change
from 07/29/19-08/11/19

School of Law
Appointment/Reappointment
Benedict O'Brien, Alisa N.

Change
Cravens, Sarah

College of Polymer Science & Polymer Engineering
Appointment/Reappointment
Eagan, James

Assistant Professor Summer/Department of Polymer
Science/Faculty

07/29/19
08/25/19

$8,729.73
for the period

Payment for start-up funded research

Gong, Xiong

Professor - Summer/Department of
Polymer Engineering/Faculty

05/13/19
06/02/19

$13,468.86
for the period

Payment for grant-funded summer research

Jia, Li

Associate Professor Summer/Department of Polymer
Science/Faculty

07/29/19
08/24/19

$11,831.25
for the period

Payment for grant-funded summer research

Professor, Polymer Science;
Professor, Chemistry/Department
of Polymer Science/Faculty (BUF)

08/26/19
08/27/22

$136,191.00
9 mo

Extension of joint appointment with
Polymer Science (primary) and Chemistry
(secondary)

Liu, Chunming

Assistant Professor Summer/Department of Polymer
Science/Faculty

07/29/19
08/25/19

$8,545.95
for the period

Payment for start-up funded research

McKenzie, Ruel

Assistant Professor Summer/Department of Polymer
Engineering/Faculty

07/01/19
07/30/19

$11,059.46
for the period

Payment for start-up funded research

Professor - Summer/Department of
Polymer Engineering/Faculty

06/03/19
06/30/19

$15,427.10
for the period

Amend action approved at August 14,
2019 Board of Trustees meeting; date
change from 06/03/19-07/21/19; salary
change from $23,912.00/for the period

Change
Soucek, Mark

10092019 BOT Personnel Actions - Page 10

10/09/2019.1
Page 10

 Name

Job/Dept/Job Function

Effective
Date

Salary/Term

Comments

Vogt, Bryan D.

Professor, Polymer
Engineering/Department of
Polymer Engineering/Faculty
(BUF)

08/14/19

$145,191.00
9 mo

Amend action approved at August 14,
2019 Board of Trustees meeting;
resignation date change from 07/20/19

Associate Professor, Polymer
Engineering/Department of
Polymer Engineering/Faculty
(BUF)

08/20/19

$112,197.00
9 mo

Resignation

08/26/19
05/17/20

$9,420.00
9 mo
(stipend)

Extension of temporary stipend for
teaching 30 load hours; base salary is
$88,493.00/9 mo

08/26/19
05/17/20

$3,500.00
9 mo
(stipend)

Temporary administrative stipend for
Tremco project duties; base salary is
$88,493.00/9 mo

Separation
Zacharia, Nicole

College of Applied Science & Technology
Appointment/Reappointment
Belcher, Marcia C.

Professor, Construction
Engineering Technology/Division
of Engineering & Science
Technology/Faculty (BUF)

Chernikova, Irina A.

Professor, Technical
Mathematics/Department of
Applied General & Technical
Studies/Faculty (BUF)

08/26/19
05/17/20

$9,420.00
9 mo
(stipend)

Extension of temporary stipend for
teaching 30 load hours; base salary is
$81,879.00/9 mo

Du, Shirong

Associate Professor Summer/Division of Business &
Information Technology/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$3,075.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Associate Professor, Computer
Information Systems/Division of
Business & Information
Technology/Faculty (BUF)

08/26/19
05/17/20

$7,920.00
9 mo
(stipend)

Extension of temporary stipend for
teaching 30 load hours; base salary is
$75,860.00/9 mo

Professor - Summer/Division of
Business & Information
Technology/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$8,550.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Professor, Computer Information
Technology/Division of Business
& Information Technology/Faculty
(BUF)

08/26/19
05/17/20

$9,420.00
9 mo
(stipend)

Extension of temporary stipend for
teaching 30 load hours; base salary is
$86,713.00/9 mo

Farooqi, Zarreen

10092019 BOT Personnel Actions - Page 11

10/09/2019.1
Page 11

 Name

Job/Dept/Job Function

Effective
Date

Salary/Term

Comments

Feerasta, Jamal

Professor - Summer/Division of
Business & Information
Technology/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$8,550.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Professor, Hospitality
Management/Division of Business
& Information Technology/Faculty
(BUF)

08/26/19
05/17/20

$9,420.00
9 mo
(stipend)

Extension of temporary stipend for
teaching 30 load hours; base salary is
$84,006.00/9 mo

Feldt, Kevin M.

Professor, Marketing & Sales
Technology/Division of Business
& Information Technology/Faculty
(BUF)

08/26/19
05/17/20

$9,420.00
9 mo
(stipend)

Extension of temporary stipend for
teaching 30 load hours; base salary is
$86,006.00/9 mo

Herold, Kelly M.

Assistant Dean, College of
Applied Science &
Technology/College of Applied
Science & Technology, Office of
the Dean/Contract Professional

07/01/19
09/29/19

$15,000.00
12 mo
(stipend)

Extension of temporary grant-funded
administrative stipend for Co-Chief
Administrator/Key Contact duties; base
salary is $113,290.00/12 mo

Willett, Stacy L.

Professor, Emergency
Management/Disaster Science &
Emergency Services/Faculty
(BUF)

08/26/19
05/17/20

$9,420.00
9 mo
(stipend)

Extension of temporary stipend for
teaching 30 load hours; base salary is
$93,297.00/9 mo

Assistant Professor Summer/Division of Engineering
& Science Technology/Faculty

06/10/19
08/04/19

$16,862.50
summer session

Amend action approved at August 14,
2019 Board of Trustees meeting; title
change from Visiting Assistant Professor
of Practice - Summer; salary change from
$10,250.00/summer session

Howley, Heather A.

Associate Professor Summer/General Studies:
Effective Oral CommunicationWayne College/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$5,125.00
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Woods, Douglas B.

Associate Professor Summer/Accounting-Wayne
College/Faculty

07/15/19
08/18/19

$2,562.50
summer session

Payment for summer teaching

Change
Carpenter, Wesley A.

Wayne College
Appointment/Reappointment

10092019 BOT Personnel Actions - Page 12

10/09/2019.1
Page 12

 Name

Job/Dept/Job Function

Effective
Date

Salary/Term

Comments

EMPLOYEE PERSONNEL ACTIONS
ADDENDUM
Office of Human Resources
Appointment/Reappointment
Hannon, Tami Z.

Director, Equal Employment
Opportunity/Affirmative Action;
Interim Deputy Title IX
Coordinator/Human
Resources/Contract Professional

09/16/19

$82,500.00
12 mo

Successful internal applicant; salary
adjustment from $67,000.00/12 mo; title
change from Interim Director, Equal
Employment Opportunity/Affirmative
Action; grade change from 121 to 123

Professor, Law; Goodyear Chair in
Intellectual Property; Director of
the Center for Intellectual Property
Law & Technology/Law Instruction/Faculty

12/16/19

$145,000.00

Appointment vice M. Wilson; $10,000.00
for research, travel and other professional
expenses relating to Goodyear Chair
appointment

12/16/19
06/30/20

$30,000.00
12 mo
(stipend)

Temporary additional title and
administrative stipend for Goodyear Chair
assignment

12/16/19
12/31/22

$10,000.00
12 mo
(stipend)

Temporary additional title and
administrative stipend for Director
assignment

Professor, Surveying & Mapping
Technology/Division of
Engineering & Science
Technology/Faculty

08/24/20

$67,324.00
9 mo

Rehire in accordance with reemployment
agreement for retirees at 80% of current
salary

Professor, Surveying & Mapping
Technology/Division of
Engineering & Science
Technology/Faculty (BUF)

05/31/20

$84,155.00
9 mo

Retirement

School of Law
Appointment/Reappointment
Schultz, Mark

College of Applied Science & Technology
Appointment/Reappointment
Schuller, Gary A.

Separation
Schuller, Gary A.

10092019 BOT Personnel Actions - Page 13

10/09/2019ADD.1
Page 1

 THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
Organizational/Department Name Change

In accordance with rule 3359-2-02, the following recommendations for changes are noted for
approval by the Board of Trustees, and upon approval, the Secretary of the Board of Trustees
is authorized to effect appropriate changes in rules of the Board of Trustees to reflect these
changes in titles, reporting or organizations relationships, or other such designations or
changes:

Effective date: August 14, 2019

FROM:
TO:

Division of Student Success
Division of Student Affairs

06/12/19 Board of Trustees Meeting
10092019 BOT Personnel Actions - Page 14

Page 1 of 1

 THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
In accordance with rule 3359-25-07, the following recommendations for Unclassified Staff
Classification changes are noted as follows:
GRADE

JOB
CODE

TITLE

FLSA

120
120
999
125
121
122
123
119
122
119
121
120
120
119
120
120
121
119
999
999
999

22126
22208
24535
24554
25103
27665
27665
27670
27782
27787
27788
27789
27790
28183
28605
28751
28794
29242
29306
29787
29788

Staff Internal Auditor
Asst Mgr Accounts Payable
VP/Chief of Staff
Assoc Dir Off Res Admin
Mechanical Engineer
Prog Dir COF Rec & Retention
Dir COF & Collegiate Success
Recruiter & Retention Coord
Assoc Dir COF & Col Success
Coord Acad Supp Srvcs -Bball
Asst Dir Collegiate Success
Retention Coord & Wrkfce Dev
Sr Recruiter & Retention Coord
Coord Inst Leadership Advance
Mgr Marketing PAH
Mgr UA Solutions
Asst Prog Dir UB Math & Sci
Athletics Learning Specialist
Academic Intern
Instructor-Fire Academy
Instructor-Police Academy

Exempt
Exempt
Exempt
Exempt
Exempt
Exempt
Exempt
Exempt
Exempt
Exempt
Exempt
Exempt
Exempt
Exempt
Exempt
Exempt
Exempt
Exempt
Non-exempt
Non-exempt
Non-exempt

Unclassified Classification Changes

REMOVE EFFECTIVE
6/1/2019
9/10/2019
8/21/2019
8/29/2019
4/29/2019
8/22/2016
7/1/2019
7/1/2019
7/1/2019
7/19/2019
7/1/2019
7/1/2019
7/1/2019
8/23/2019
9/18/2019
7/1/2019
9/18/2019
9/3/2019
7/19/2019
7/1/2019
7/1/2019

October 9, 2019
Page 1
10092019 BOT Personnel Actions - Page 15

 THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
In accordance with rule 3359-25-06, the following recommendations for Classified Staff
Classification changes are noted as follows:

GRADE
119
119
118

JOB CODE
41226
41343
43361

TITLE
Mgr Admin Svcs-UA Solutions
Coord Admin Svcs-Educ
Web Development Spec-WC

FLSA
Non-exempt
Non-exempt
Non-exempt

Classified Classification Changes

REMOVE

October 9, 2019
Page 1
10092019 BOT Personnel Actions - Page 16

EFFECTIVE
6/1/19
7/1/19
7/1/19

 Guide to Terminology Used in Personnel Reports

Term

Definition/Explanation

Adjunct Appointment

Appointment to a full-time or part-time position, normally without pay.
Individuals in this category are affiliated with the University for a
specific purpose usually involving academic research/teaching.
Appointment provides the individual with access to University
systems/services as determined by the department/college.

Appointment

New hire of an individual to an approved Faculty, Contract Professional
or Staff position. The appointment can be full-time or part-time,
temporary or regular.

Department/School Chair

Faculty member appointed to provide leadership to an academic
department or school within a college. Department/School Chair
appointments normally cover the entire academic year (12-month
appointment). A Faculty member’s salary will be converted from 9month to 12-month status using an approved formula to reflect the
additional time worked. A stipend (currently calculated as 1/11th of the
converted salary) is awarded for assuming the additional responsibilities
of a Department/School Chair. 1/10th of the stipend is converted to
base each year that the individual serves as a Department/School Chair.

Discharge

Involuntary termination of appointment.

Job Audit/Reclassification

Under University Rule 3359-25-10 the University may initiate audits and
reviews of positions and classifications within the approved University
Classified (3359-25-06) and Unclassified (3359-25-07) classification
plans. In addition, employees may submit a request to determine if
their current position is appropriately classified. The employee submits
a Position Description Audit Questionnaire (PDAQ) to their immediate
supervisor to initiate the job audit process. The immediate supervisor
and second level supervisor are required to review and approve the
information submitted on the PDAQ. Once the PDAQ is approved, it is
submitted to the Classification Unit in Talent Development & Human
Resources. The Classification Unit will review the PDAQ and determine
if the position is appropriately classified or not. If the Classification Unit
determines that the position is not classified correctly, it will provide a
recommendation to change the classification. The recommendation will
be reviewed and approved by the employee’s management up to and
including the appropriate Vice President. The approved
recommendation will then be submitted to the University’s Board of
Trustees for approval.

10092019 BOT Personnel Actions - Page 17

 Leave Without Compensation

If an employee is unable to work due to a documented medical
condition or for other approved reasons and they have exhausted all
accrued sick leave, vacation leave and compensatory time that they are
entitled to use, the employee may continue their approved absence
from work without pay and will retain status as a University employee.

Market Increase

The Classification unit in Talent Development & Human Resources will,
upon request from a dean or vice president, conduct a market
evaluation of a position or positions to determine if the University is
providing an appropriate level of compensation. If it is determined that
the current level of compensation is below the established market, a
recommendation will be made to adjust the current level of
compensation.

Merit Increase

Increase in pay granted for meeting established performance criteria.

Non-Renewal

Separation of employment of a Contract Professional employee without
cause in accordance with the requirements established in University
Rule 3359-22-01. The University is required to provide notice in writing
to the affected Contract Professional employee. If the individual has
two years or less service with the University, they will receive three
months’ notice. If the individual has more than two years of service, six
months’ notice is required.

Offline Salary Adjustment

Increase in salary that occurs outside of annual salary review process.
Recommendations for offline salary adjustments are submitted by the
appropriate Vice President to Talent Development & Human Resources
for review and approval. Offline salary adjustments are normally
recommended when specific market (internal or external) or equity
(internal) issues exist with an individual’s salary. Offline increases may
also be recommended as a result of a reorganization involving a change
in responsibilities.

Probationary Removal

Classified civil service employees are required to serve and successfully
complete a probationary period following any initial appointment into a
classified civil service position. If an employee’s service is found to be
unsatisfactory, the employee may be removed from the position at any
time during the probationary period. The length of the probationary
period is 120 days for classified civil service employees/CWA bargainingunit employees and one year for Police Officers in the FOP bargaining
unit. A probationary classified civil service employee duly removed for
unsatisfactory service does not have the right to appeal the removal to
the State Personnel Board of Review. A probationary bargaining unit
employee is not permitted to appeal the removal decision under the
terms of the collective bargaining agreements.

10092019 BOT Personnel Actions - Page 18

 Promotion

The movement of an employee from one position to another budgeted
position at a higher classification and pay range; or a higher salary
where a pay range does not exist. The former position becomes vacant.

Resignation

A voluntary termination of employment.

Salary Basis Change

A change in appointment status for an employee, 12-month to 9-month
or vice-versa.

Status Change

A change in pay group, job family or job function.

Stipend

Contract Professional and non-bargaining unit staff employees may
receive a temporary stipend for substantial increases in responsibility
for activities outside of the normal scope of the employee’s assigned
classification (University Rule 3359-11-12.1). Full-time Faculty may
receive a stipend for primarily administrative functions requiring
substantial increases in responsibility and for activities not included in
the ordinary load of teaching, research, and professional service for fulltime faculty (University Rule 3359-11-12).

Supplemental

Additional compensation provided for completion of assigned job
responsibilities.

Temporary Appointment

An appointment for a limited period of time with a specific beginning
and ending date.

Tenure Change

A change to the date for tenure eligibility for a full-time faculty member
in a tenure-track position.

Title Change

An employee remains in their budgeted position, but the title changes
and there may be an increase in salary. No vacancy is created by the
move.

Transfer

Lateral move of an employee from one department to another
department, where the employee stays in the same classification.

Training/Apprenticeship

The Collective Bargaining Agreement between the University and the
Communication Workers of America contains language in Addendum A
that authorizes the Office of Talent Development & Human Resources
to develop and administer a Job Enrichment and Apprenticeship
Program for CWA bargaining-unit employees. Employees selected to
participate in the program are given an opportunity to expand their
knowledge and skills. In return, these employees are provided with an
increase in pay to reflect the expanded knowledge/skill set that they
have developed. All increases in pay are awarded in accordance with
approved Wage Progression Schedule.

10092019 BOT Personnel Actions - Page 19

 THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
RESOLUTION 10- -19
Pertaining to Personnel Actions

BE IT RESOLVED, that the Personnel Actions recommended by President Gary L. Miller,
dated October 9, 2019, as attached, which include but are not limited to hires, promotions, leaves,
fellowships, reclassifications, renewals, non-renewals, orders of removal, etc., be approved as
amended.

M. Celeste Cook, Secretary
Board of Trustees

October 9, 2019

 FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE
TAB 2

INVESTMENT REPORT FOR THE
FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2019

THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING

October 9, 2019

 The University of Akron
Investment Report
For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2019

SUMMARY

OPERATING FUNDS
The Operating Funds totaled $209.4 million at June 30, 2019 and posted a blended rate of return
(ROR) of 3.8 percent, or $8.7 million, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019 – refer to Exhibit 4
for historic Operating Investment balances.
Cash and Fixed Income
PFM and JPMorgan Chase each manage a portion of the Cash and Equivalents portfolio, while
PFM also manages the Short- and Intermediate-Term Fixed Income Investments portfolios.
During March 2018, the University established an escrow account with PNC. That escrow holds
cash that is used to fund the University’s Voluntary Retirement Incentive Program’s defined
contribution plan.
Cash and Fixed Income portfolios totaled $149.6 million at June 30, 2019. The Cash and Fixed
Income portfolios achieved an overall twelve month ROR of 4.5 percent, or $6.3 million [$161
million average quarterly balance] – refer to Exhibit 1 for the detail regarding performance.
Long-Term
The Long-Term investments managed by Legacy totaled $59.8 million at June 30, 2019 achieved
an overall twelve month ROR of 4.1 percent, or $2.3 million [$57.3 million average quarterly
balance] compared to benchmark of 5.3 percent – refer to Exhibit 1 for the detail regarding
performance.
The operating funds are within the University’s prescribed asset allocation requirements at June
30, 2019 and, we have no reason to believe those compliance requirements were not maintained
throughout the quarter – refer to Exhibits 2 and 3 for the detail regarding compliance.

 The University of Akron
Investment Report
For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2019
Page 2

ENDOWMENTS
The Endowments totaled $69.6 million at June 30, 2019 and posted a blended ROR of 2.3
percent, or $1.7 million, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019.
The June 30, 2019 market value increased $0.8 million from June 30, 2018. The largest
contributors to that change were Endowment Distributions of ($2.9 million), offset by gifts of
$2.3 million – refer to Exhibit 7 for the detail regarding components of change and Exhibit 8 for
historic Investment balances.
Pooled
The Pooled Endowment totaled $62.7 million at June 30, 2019, managed by Cambridge, and
achieved an overall twelve month ROR of 1.8 percent, or $1.3 million [$61.1 million average
quarterly balance] compared to the policy benchmark of 4.9 percent – refer to Exhibit 5 for the
detail regarding performance.
Of Cambridge’s portfolio, Vanguard REIT Index ETF achieved the highest twelve month ROR
at 12 percent [$2.2 million balance at June 30], while the Victory Global Natural Resources
posted the lowest ROR at negative (52.6 percent) [$1.6 million balance at June 30].
These funds are within the University’s prescribed asset allocation requirements at June 30, 2019
and, we have no reason to believe those compliance requirements were not maintained
throughout the quarter – refer to Exhibit 6 for the detail regarding compliance.
Separately Invested
The Separately Invested Endowments totaled $6.9 million at June 30, 2019, are invested in
accord with donor stipulations, and posted a blended twelve month ROR of 5.9 percent, or $0.4
million [$6.7 million average quarterly balance].
The highest ROR for the fiscal year ended June 30 was the ORSP portfolio, invested at PNC
Bank, at 7 percent on market value of $2.8 million at June 30. The lowest ROR for the fiscal year
ended June 30 was the Constitutional Law endowment, invested at Key Bank, at 2.7 percent on
market value of $1 million at June 30 – refer to Exhibit 5 for the detail regarding performance.
These funds are separately invested for a number of reasons and do not have uniform prescribed
asset allocation requirements.

 Operating
Funds

THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
OPERATING Funds Investment Report
For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2019
Exhibit 1

Net Rates of Return for the Periods Ended June 30, 2019
At or Above Benchmark
< 100 Basis Pts Below Benchmark
> 100 Basis Pts Below Benchmark

Market Value

Quarter
ROR/Benchmark

Six Months
ROR/Benchmark

Net Rates of Return
One Year
Two Years
ROR/Benchmark ROR/Benchmark

Three Years
ROR/Benchmark

Portfolio/Advisor

Cash and Cash Equivalents / PFM, PNC & JPMC

$

43,076,000

0.6%
0.6%

1.2%
1.2%

2.2%
2.3%

1.8%
1.8%

1.4%
1.4%

49,644,000

1.4%
1.4%

2.7%
2.4%

4.2%
4.0%

2.3%
2.0%

1.6%
1.3%

56,890,000

2.2%
2.3%

4.3%
3.9%

6.2%
6.1%

2.8%
2.6%

1.7%
1.4%

149,610,000

1.5%

2.9%

4.5%

2.5%

1.7%

59,811,000

3.7%
3.1%

13.3%
12.6%

4.1%
5.3%

5.8%
6.9%

8.9%
8.7%

209,421,000

2.0%

5.3%

3.8%

3.0%

3.3%

Merrill Lynch 3 Month Treasury Index

Short-Term Fixed Income / PFM
Merrill Lynch 1-3 Year Treasury/Agency Index

Intermediate-Term Fixed Income / PFM
Merrill Lynch 1-10 Year Treasury/Agency Index

SUBTOTAL - PFM, PNC & JPMC Managed Portfolios

$

Long-Term / Legacy
Policy Balanced Index (65/35)

TOTAL OPERATING FUNDS

$

3

 THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
OPERATING Funds Investment Report
For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2019
Operating Funds Policy Compliance: Asset Allocation at June 30, 2019
Compliant

Policy Guidelines

Actual

Compliance
Indicator

Noncompliant

Range

Target

Allocation

Cash and Cash Equivalents

10-80%

25%

21%

Short-Term Fixed Income

20-65%

25%

24%

Intermediate-Term Fixed Income

0-45%

35%

27%

Long-Term

0-35%

15%

28%

Large Cap

20-30%

25%

30%

Small/Mid Cap

10-20%

15%

12%

International

15-25%

20%

21%

Alternative

10-20%

15%

14%

Fixed Income

15-25%

20%

22%

Cash

0-10%

5%

1%

4

Exhibit 2

 THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
OPERATING Funds Investment Report
For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2019
Exhibit 3

State Compliance: Portfolio Composition and Credit Quality
Compliant
Noncompliant

Section 3345.05 of the Ohio Revised Code states:
A stipulation that investment of at least 25% of the average amount of the investment portfolio over the course of the
previous fiscal year be invested in securities of the U.S. Government or its agencies or instrumentalities, the treasurer of
state's pooled investment program, obligations of the State or any political subdivision of the State, certificates of deposit
of any national bank located in the State, written repurchase agreements with any eligible Ohio financial institution that
is a member of the federal reserve system or federal home loan bank, money market funds [MMFs], or bankers
acceptances maturing in 270 days or less which are eligible for purchase by the federal reserve system, as a reserve.

60
50

Millions

40
30

20

Ohio Revised Code §3345.05 Compliance
Cash, MMFs, US Treas, Negotiable CDs:

BBB+

AAA
A-1

10

AA+
AAAm

-

Not rated

$

Cash and
Cash Equivalents

A
AA

Market Value

Cash at JPMC & PNC
Money Market Funds
US Treasuries
Negotiable CDs
Corporate Issues
Mutual Funds
Equities
Alternative Invest.

$

Total Operating Funds $

16,372,000
26,704,000

107,126,000
Short-Term
Fixed Income

$

Actual Allocation

710,000
23,779,000
6,359,000
18,796,000

Compliance
Indicator

51%
Intermediate-Term
Fixed Income

$

197,000
29,019,000
2,574,000
25,100,000

Long-Term

$

1,412,000

13,021,000
36,715,000
8,663,000
43,076,000

$

49,644,000

$

56,890,000

$

59,811,000

Note: The Money Market Funds are held at PFM for all portfolios except the Long-Term portfolio
held by Legacy.

5

 THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
OPERATING Funds Investment Report
For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2019
Exhibit 4

Operating Investment
Monthly balances from June 30, 2013 - 2019

$250

Short-Term

Intermediate-Term

Long-Term

$200

$150

Millions

Cash and Cash Equivalents

$100

$50

$0

Balances at June 30:

Cash and Cash Equivalents
Short-Term Fixed Income
Intermediate-Term Fixed Income
Long-Term
Total
Change

2013
$30.3
65.7
74.8
0.0
$170.8
($3.6)

2014
$25.7
46.4
51.3
49.2
$172.6
$1.8

2015
$23.7
46.8
52.1
48.8
$171.4
($1.2)

2016
$20.9
47.5
54.2
46.2
$168.8
($2.6)

6

2017
$33.1
47.6
53.9
53.4
$188.0
$19.2

2018
$42.1
47.7
53.6
57.5
$200.9
$12.9

2019
$43.1
49.6
56.9
59.8
$209.4
$8.5

 Endowments

THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
ENDOWMENT Funds Investment Report
For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2019
Exhibit 5

Net Rates of Return for the Periods Ended June 30, 2019
At or Above Benchmark

Net Rates of Return

< 100 Basis Pts Below Benchmark
> 100 Basis Pts Below Benchmark

Market Value

Six Months
ROR/Benchmark

One Year
ROR/Benchmark

Annualized Since
1/1/2014
ROR/Benchmark

Annualized Since
6/30/2002
ROR/Benchmark

Portfolio/Advisor (Inception)

POOLED ENDOWMENT
Portfolio Composite / Cambridge
Policy Balanced Index (65/35)
Total Pooled Endowment
SEPARATELY INVESTED ENDOWMENTS
Oelschlager Leadership Award / Key Bank (7/31/2000)
Seiberling Chair in Con. Law / Key Bank (7/31/1997)
ORSP / PNC Bank (4/30/2009)
Timken Co. and TimkenSteel Corp.
Total Separately Invested Endowments
TOTAL ENDOWMENTS

$

62,639,000

$

62,639,000

$

2,257,000
972,000
2,818,000
886,000

$
$

6,933,000
69,572,000

10.9%
12.6%

1.8%
4.9%

3.6%
5.0%

5.7%
6.3%

15.0%
1.5%
10.1%
n/a

5.5%
2.7%
7.0%
n/a

11.2%
0.3%
4.0%
n/a

(3.2%)
2.9%
2.5%
n/a

Note 1: Cambridge's only performance is reflected within the "Annualized Since 1/1/2014" and the more current measurement columns while the "Annualized Since 6/30/2002"
column includes both Cambridge and predecessor performance.
Note 2: Cash representing resources received but, based upon timing of receipt, not yet provided to Cambridge for investment, totaled $238,000. This cash is invested within
the Operating Investments at quarter end.

7

 THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
ENDOWMENT Funds Investment Report
For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2019
Exhibit 6

Pooled Endowment Policy Compliance at June 30, 2019
Compliant
Noncompliant

Policy Guidelines

Actual

Compliance

Allocation

Indicator

Range

Target

40-80%
0-25%
10-25%
10-25%

60%
15%
12%
13%

47%
24%
12%
17%

0-100%
0-20%

n/a
n/a

100%
0%

0-10%
0-10%
0-10%
0-10%
0-10%

n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a

14%
10%
7%
7%
6%

Asset Allocation
Global Equity
Absolute Return
Real Assets
Bonds & Cash

Liquidity

Daily thru 2 Years
Illiquid (2+ Years)

Fund Concentration

Oak Associates
Vanguard Total Bond Market Index Fund
Vanguard FTSE Developed ETF
Vanguard Total World Stock Index Fund
Gardner Russo & Gardner

Note: Only the 5 largest managers/funds are listed within the Fund Concentration section above.

8

 THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
ENDOWMENT Funds Investment Report
For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2019
Components of and Net Change - Total Endowments

Exhibit 7

Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2016 - 2019
$6,000
$5,000
$4,000
$3,000
$2,000

Thousands

$1,000
$0
($1,000)

($2,000)
($3,000)
($4,000)

Endowment Gifts
Transfers, Net
Endowment Distributions
Administrative Fee
Interest & Dividends
Investment Fees
Realized & Unrealized G/L
Net Endowment Change

2016
$480
0
(3,155)
(556)
2,028
(220)
(1,942)
$(3,365)

2017
$69
392
(3,038)
(582)
1,342
(199)
5,699
$3,684

2018
$2,926
20
(3,021)
(309)
1,444
(239)
2,253
$3,073

2019
$2,309
0
(2,885)
(305)
1,770
(316)
222
$795

The categories that comprise the market value changes are as follows:
Endowment Gifts and Transfers, Net; Endowment Distributions; Administrative Fee, and Investment
Income.
Select components are discussed below.
Endowment Gifts
Gifts to the University given in support of University Endowments. The Grotefend Family contributed
$1.5 million and $2 million during the fiscal years 2018 and 2019, respectfully for Mechanical
Engineering Scholarships.
Endowment Distributions
Effective July 1, 2017, distributions made from the endowments became 4.75% of a 3-year moving
average.

Administrative Fee
Effective July 1, 2017, the administrative fee assessed by the University to all pooled endowments
became 0.5% which is directed to the Scholarships for Excellence.
Investment Fees
Represents known advisor, manager, and custodial fees. The fees do not represent all investment
costs as some fees are embedded within investments, net of returns, and are not readily
determinable.

9

 THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
ENDOWMENT Funds Investment Report
For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2019
The University of Akron and Foundation
Investment Balances
At June 30, 1999 - 2019

Exhibit 8

$250

Total

Millions

$200
$150

Foundation

$100
$50
$0

UNIVERSITY

University
1999
$52.0

2000
$65.9

2001
$54.9

2002
$45.1

2003
$43.5

2004
$47.7

2005
$50.5

2006
$53.8

2007
$60.6

2008
$53.2

2009
$44.3

2010
$48.3

2011
$57.2

2012
$53.9

2013
$59.3

2014
$68.8

2015
$65.4

2016
$62.0

2017
$65.7

2018
$68.7

2019
$69.6

FOUNDATION

117.0

162.8

125.1

107.3

103.3

117.4

125.7

132.4

151.6

143.3

101.1

107.7

129.3

129.7

140.5

159.8

150.6

142.7

154.2

165.9

179.6

TOTAL

$169.0

$228.7

$180.0

$152.4

$146.8

$165.1

$176.2

$186.2

$212.2

$196.5

$145.4

$156.0

$186.5

$183.6

$199.8

$228.6

$216.0

$204.7

$219.9

$234.6

$249.2

Total Change

$30.9

$59.7

$(48.7)

$(27.6)

$(5.6)

$18.2

$11.1

$10.1

$26.0

$(15.8)

$(51.1)

$10.6

$30.6

$(2.9)

$16.2

$28.8

$(12.6)

$(11.2)

$15.2

$14.7

$14.5

Note 1 : Cambridge became the Foundation and University endowment investment manager on 1/1/2014 and 4/1/2014, respectively.
Note 2 : Over the last 20 years both the Foundation and University endowment portfolios realized both large and small fluctuations. The notable downturns during 2001 and 2002 were the
result of the tech bubble burst and the event of September 11, 2001, and 2008 and 2009 were the result of the Great Recession.

10

 THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
RESOLUTION 10- -19
Acceptance of the Investment Report for the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2019

BE IT RESOLVED, That the recommendation presented by the Finance &
Administration Committee on October 9, 2019, accepting the Investment Report for the Fiscal
Year Ended June 30, 2019, be approved.

M. Celeste Cook, Secretary
Board of Trustees

October 9, 2019

 FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE
TAB 3

FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE
FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2019

THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING

October 9, 2019

 DATE:

September 23, 2019

TO:

Nathan J. Mortimer, Vice President for Finance & Administration/CFO

FROM:

Amy S. Gilliland, Director of Resource Analysis & Budgeting

SUBJECT:

General Fund, Auxiliary Funds, and Departmental Sales and Services Funds:
Budget to Actual Results for the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2019

As requested, the Office of Resource Analysis & Budgeting provides the accompanying Financial
Report for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019 for the General Fund, Auxiliary Funds, and
Departmental Sales and Services Funds (Akron and Wayne combined) together with
accompanying FY19 budget assumptions and narratives.
This Financial Report should be presented for consideration and approval at the October 9, 2019
Board of Trustees meeting.

Resource Analysis & Budgeting
Akron, OH 44325-6202
330-972-6521 Office · 330-972-6317 Fax
The University of Akron is an Equal Education and Employment Institution

 The University of Akron
General Fund, Auxiliary Funds, and Departmental Sales and Services Funds
Budget to Actual Results
For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2019
Table of Contents
Description

Page

General Fund Revised Budget and Actual (Akron and Wayne Combined) ....................................1
General Fund FY19 Revised Budget Assumptions (Akron and Wayne Combined).......................2
General Fund Narrative (Akron and Wayne Combined) .................................................................5
Auxiliary Funds Budget and Actual ................................................................................................8
Auxiliary Funds FY19 Budget Assumptions .................................................................................17
Auxiliary Funds Narrative .............................................................................................................20
Departmental Sales and Services Funds Budget and Actual .........................................................28
Departmental Sales and Services Funds FY19 Budget Assumptions ............................................34
Departmental Sales and Services Funds Narrative ........................................................................36

 GENERAL FUND

For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2019

The University of Akron
Akron and Wayne General Fund Combined
FY19 Revised Budget and Actual Results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019

Original
Budget
$186,872,000
22,305,000
103,507,000
5,800,000
3,000,000
2,312,000
323,796,000

Revised
Budget
$187,500,000
21,900,000
101,852,000
5,400,000
1,068,000
2,100,000
319,820,000

Actual
$186,251,268
21,732,648
101,851,513
5,188,151
1,087,866
1,959,430
318,070,876

Payroll
Fringes
Total Compensation

153,038,000
52,782,000
200,220,000

140,993,000
53,341,000
194,334,000

140,283,371
50,643,511
190,926,882

709,629
2,697,489
3,407,118

98%

Utilities
Operating
Bad Debt
Scholarships
Total Non Personnel

11,501,000
36,761,000
1,000,000
59,464,000
108,726,000

10,901,000
34,785,000
400,000
54,748,000
100,834,000

10,692,070
33,406,324
440,433
52,787,389
97,326,217

208,930
1,378,676
(40,433)
1,960,611
3,507,783

97%

Total Expenditures

308,946,000

295,168,000

288,253,099

6,914,901

98%

14,850,000

24,652,000

29,817,777

5,165,777

16,180,000
1,000,000
0
290,000
(1,000,000)
(31,320,000)
0
0
(14,850,000)

3,604,600
2,472,400
3,832,000
487,000
(3,492,000)
(31,479,000)
(77,000)
0
(24,652,000)

3,795,965
2,569,633
3,832,133
596,972
(2,822,400)
(34,369,392)
(77,000)
(3,343,688)
(29,817,777)

191,365
97,233
133
109,972
669,600
(2,890,392)
0
(3,343,688)
(5,165,777)

Tuition & General Service Fees
Other Fees
State Share of Instruction
Indirect Cost Recovery
Investment Income
Miscellaneous & Endowment
Total Revenues

Net Before Transfers and Advances
Transfers-In
Transfers-In Plant and Other
Transfers-In Encumbrance
Advances-In
Transfers-Out - Plant Fund
Transfers-Out - Other
Advances-Out
Transfers-Out - Encumbrance
Net Transfers and Advances
Difference

$0

$0

$0

$ Budget
% of
Variance
Budget
($1,248,732)
(167,352)
(487)
(211,849)
19,866
(140,570)
(1,749,124) 99%

$0

The FY 2019 Revised Budget Assumptions and Narratives of the Revised Budget and Actual Results are integral to this statement.

1

 The University of Akron
Akron and Wayne General Fund Combined
FY19 Revised Budget Assumptions

Revenues
Tuition & General Service Fees: The original assumptions are expected to materialize with
overall blended enrollment declining approximately seven percent. The Guaranteed Tuition
Program was implemented while tuition and fee rates remained flat for continuing students. The
original assumption presumed undergraduate, graduate, and law school declines approximating
six percent, 14 percent, and two percent, respectively.
Other Fees: The original assumptions are expected to materialize with overall blended
enrollment declining approximately seven percent plus the Guaranteed Tuition Program was
implemented while tuition and fee rates remained flat for continuing students.
State Share of Instruction: The original assumption presumed a two percent decline from FY18
to $103.5 million. That original assumption was based upon information received from the Ohio
Department of Higher Education (ODHE). However, the ODHE subsequently refined its
estimate during the fall 2018, and the revised assumption estimates that SSI will be $101.9
million.
Indirect Cost Recovery: The original assumption presumed no significant change as compared
to FY18; however, current estimates indicate revenues closer to $5.4 million with allocations
remaining unchanged as follows: General Fund, 66 percent; Department, 13 percent; College, 11
percent; and Principal Investigator account, 10 percent.
Investment Income: The original assumption included investment income from all operating
funds. Income earned and redemptions made within the short, intermediate, and long-term
operating fund portfolios are immediately reinvested; therefore, unavailable to the General Fund
as resources for expenditure.
Expenditures
Payroll: The original assumptions presumed a three percent increase pursuant to collective
bargaining agreements, a raise pool equivalent to three percent for non-represented full-time
employees and part-time faculty, vacant positions would yield $5.6 million towards vacancy
savings, and the year-one installment for the Voluntary Retirement Incentive Program (VRIP) in
the amount of $1.7 million.
The revised assumptions include the application of the raises and a reclassification of the VRIP
installment to Fringes since the recipients are technically no longer employees. Plus, several
planned hires did not materialize during the fiscal year while the effort to maintain vacant
positions continues.

2

 The University of Akron
Akron and Wayne General Fund Combined
FY19 Revised Budget Assumptions

Fringes: The original assumption presumed the pooled rate for benefits such as 14 percent
employer contribution to the respective retirement system, University contribution toward
employee group insurance, employee and dependent fee remission, and University portion of
employee permits. The revised assumptions include the reclassification of the Voluntary
Retirement Incentive Program (VRIP) one-year installment to Fringes.
Operating: The original assumptions presumed that designated fees such as course fees and
technology fees, etc., follow the seven percent enrollment decline. The designated fees and startups assume that only current-year allocation is expended; however, a certain level of carry over
exists within these fees and start-ups, which may depending upon circumstances be expended by
the units. Current estimates presume the University will continue to closely manage and control
its spending which will lead to a reduced level of expenditures. The change from original budget
also contemplates a return of startup allocations in the amount of $2 million which will be
budgeted and expended in subsequent fiscal years.
Scholarships: The original assumption presumed $59.4 million as follows for graduate assistants
($11.4 million); Law School ($3.7 million); and undergraduate ($44.4 million) while the revised
assumption presumes $54.7 million as follows for graduate assistants ($9.7 million); Law School
($4 million); and undergraduate ($41 million).
This revision represents a $4.7 million decline from both the original budget and from FY18.
Transfers and Advances
Transfers-In: The original assumption presumed $16.2 million from General Fund reserves and
$1 million from plant fund reserves. However, continued control of both personnel and
operating costs has reduced anticipated need for General Fund reserves to approximately $3.6
million.
Advances-In: The original assumption presumed the Musson Industrial Control Systems Test
Bed and the National Museum of Psychology would repay $200,000 and $90,000 of prior year
advances, respectively. The revised assumption presumes the $290,000 repayment plus
additional repayments totaling $120,000 and the James A. Rhoades (JAR) weight room advance
in the amount of $77,000.
Transfers-Out Plant Fund: The original assumption presumed capital projects would be funded
as needs arise by $1 million. However, the General Fund has funded approximately $3.5 million
in support of capital projects, and as circumstances merit additional capital projects funding
could materialize over the remainder of the fiscal year.
Transfers-Out Other: The original assumptions presumed transfers to Auxiliaries of General
Services Fee ($11.9 million); Other ($12.6 million); and Facilities Fee ($6.8 million) while the
revised assumptions presume transfers to Auxiliaries of General Services Fee ($12.3 million);
Other ($12.2 million); and Facilities Fee ($6.5 million). The Facilities Fee and other reserves
3

 The University of Akron
Akron and Wayne General Fund Combined
FY19 Revised Budget Assumptions

will now fund $3.1 million of the debt for the current fiscal year. In addition, funding in the
amount of $400,000 was provided to NCERCAMP which will be offset to the General Fund by
an identical amount of NCERCAMP capital resources for University usage.
Advances-Out: The original assumption presumed no Advances-Out; however, a loan was made
for the James A. Rhoades (JAR) weight room.
Debt Service: The original assumptions are holding in that the University achieved its debt
deferral initiative, reserves that reside in plant funds, and debt reserves fully service the General
Fund debt this fiscal year.

4

 The University of Akron
Akron and Wayne General Fund Combined
Narrative of FY19 Revised Budget and Actual Results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019
Revenues
Tuition & General Service Fees: Tuition
& General Service Fees revenues total
$186.3 million or approximately 99
percent as compared to the revised budget
of $187.5 million. The revenues for the
first part of the summer 2019 term are
reflected in the year-end results.

Revenues ($ millions)
Revised Budget to Actual Results for the Fiscal Year
Ended June 30, 2019
$200.0
$150.0
$100.0
$50.0
$-

The overall credit hour production for the
current fiscal year is roughly eight percent
less than the prior year.

Tuition & Gen.
Fees

Other Fees

FY19 Revised Budget

SSI

IDC, Inv, Misc

FY19 Actual

Other Fees: Other Fees revenues total $21.7 million or approximately 99 percent as compared to the
revised budget of $21.9 million. The revenues for the first part of the summer 2019 term are reflected
in the year-end results.
Other Fees include various student fees such as facility fees (30 percent), technology fees (23 percent),
and unit and course fees (18 percent). Course fee revenues reflect an increase associated with the growth
in electronic content agreements. The associated revenues are directly offset by the cost of the purchased
content.
Many of the fees remain within the General Fund and are used for operations while the facility fee is
transferred to Auxiliary units and contributes toward the debt service requirements of the Student
Recreation and Wellness Center, Student Union, InfoCision Stadium, and the Fieldhouse.
State Share of Instruction: State Share of Instruction (SSI) revenues total $101.9 million or 100 percent
as compared to the revised budget of $101.9 million.
Indirect Cost Recovery: IDC revenues total $5.2 million or approximately 96 percent as compared to
the revised budget of $5.4 million.
IDC is proportionately related to externally funded research activities and is currently allocated with 66
percent used to pay the general expenditures of the University and 34 percent allocated to the academic
units.
Investment Income: Investment Income revenues total $1.1 million or 100 percent as compared to the
revised budget.
Investment Income is based upon the size of the operating funds investment portfolio and conditions that
impact the return.

5

 The University of Akron
Akron and Wayne General Fund Combined
Narrative of FY19 Revised Budget and Actual Results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019
Expenditures
Payroll and Fringe Benefits: Payroll expenditures total $140.3
million or approximately 99 percent of the revised budget of $141
million.
The fringe benefit costs total $50.6 million or 95 percent of the
revised budget of $53.3 million.

Description
Faculty

$80,522,000

Staff

29,079,000

Contract Professionals

25,469,000

Graduate Assistants
Sick Leave Accrual

Utilities:
Utilities expenditures total $10.7 million or
approximately 98 percent of the revised budget of $10.9 million.
Operating:
Operating expenditures total $33.4 million or
approximately 96 percent of the $34.8 million revised budget.

Actual FY19

6,009,000
(795,000)

Total Payroll $ 140,284,000

Note: Includes all General Fund payrollrelated activities (e.g. full time, part time,
stipends, overload, etc.) but no fringes.

The expenditures are incurred within the operating units primarily for software license, supplies and
services, transcribing, advertising, travel and occasionally smaller dollar capital items such as computers
and equipment.
Scholarships: Scholarships total $52.8 million or approximately 96 percent of the $54.7 million revised
budget. Scholarships include undergraduate ($39.7 million), graduate tuition remissions ($9.2 million),
and law scholarships ($3.9 million).

Transfers and Advances
Transfers-In: At year-end, $3.8 million was transferred in to cover the FY19 General Fund shortfall.
Transfers-In Plant and Other: The General Fund’s retiree dependent healthcare funding was sufficient
without additional support; therefore, the fiscal year 2017 support in the amount of $2.3 million was
reversed. A transfer-in of $173,000 from Telecommunications reflects the remaining fund balance of
the auxiliary operation. That activity shifted to the General Fund in FY18.
Advances:
Balance
July 1, 2018
Musson Industrial Control System Test Bed
$ 353,000
National Museum of Psychology (Cummings Center)
270,000
James A. Rhoades Weight Room
Total $ 623,000

Advances
$
77,000
$ 77,000

Repayments
$ 259,972
260,000
77,000
$ 596,972

Balance
June 30, 2019
$
93,028
10,000
$
103,028

Transfers-Out - Plant Fund: A total of $2.8 million was transferred to plant funds in support of various
projects including the Ballet Center insurance proceeds ($797,000), campus surveillance system
($722,000), Boiler Controls ($277,000), Gallucci Hall demolition ($275,000), the Roadway building air
handler ($200,000), the AERC air chiller ($170,000), Polsky elevator ($150,000), and others.
6

 The University of Akron
Akron and Wayne General Fund Combined
Narrative of FY19 Revised Budget and Actual Results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019

Transfers-Out - Other: Transfers of $34.4 million reflect distribution of $6.5 million actual facilities
fees, $12.1 million general service fees revenues and other general support to Auxiliaries of $12.8
million. In addition to the budgeted transfers, $1.2 million was transferred to Athletics to offset the
FY19 operating shortfall. Also reflected are transfers of $1.1 million to Parking Services for deck
repairs, $400,000 to a departmental sales account in support of Corrosion Engineering, $295,000 to
Recreation and Wellness Center projects, and $33,500 to E.J. Thomas Performing Arts Hall for a lighting
project.
Advances-Out: A loan to Athletics of $77,000 in support of the James A. Rhoades Arena weight room
renovation was repaid during March.

7

 AUXILIARY FUNDS

For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2019

The University of Akron
Akron and Wayne Auxiliary Funds Combined
FY19 Original Budget and Actual Results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019

Auxiliary Funds Combined
Original
Budget
$43,605,000

Actual
$43,233,817

Total Compensation

10,722,000
4,455,000
15,177,000

10,311,448
4,329,956
14,641,404

410,552
125,044
535,596

96%

Operating
Scholarships
Total Non Personnel

29,547,000
7,326,000
36,873,000

29,994,659
6,506,067
36,500,726

(447,659)
819,933
372,274

99%

Total Expenditures

52,050,000

51,142,130

907,870

98%

Net Before Transfers

(8,445,000)

(7,908,313)

536,687

9,569,000
12,335,000
13,909,000
0
0
(1,000,000)
0
(25,799,000)
9,014,000

9,306,997
12,066,760
16,231,440
50,601
271,152
(2,116,897)
(137,044)
(25,798,462)
9,874,547

(262,003)
(268,240)
2,322,440
50,601
271,152
(1,116,897)
(137,044)
538
860,547

$1,966,234

$1,397,234

Revenues

Payroll
Fringes

Transfers-In - Facilities Fee
Transfers-In - General Service Fee
Transfers-In - Other
Transfers-In - Plant Fund
Transfers-In - Encumbrances
Transfers-Out - Plant Fund
Transfers-Out - Encumbrances
Transfers-Out - Debt Service
Net Transfers
Difference

$569,000

$ Budget
% of
Variance
Budget
($371,183)
99%

The FY 2019 Budget Assumptions and Narratives of the Original Budget and Actual Results are integral to this statement.

8

 The University of Akron
Akron and Wayne Auxiliary Funds Combined
FY19 Original Budget and Actual Results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019

Athletics
Actual
$9,506,464

$ Budget
Variance
$274,464

% of
Budget
103%

Total Compensation

7,974,000
3,085,000
11,059,000

7,830,374
3,049,475
10,879,849

143,626
35,525
179,151

98%

Operating
Scholarships
Total Non Personnel

10,674,000
7,326,000
18,000,000

13,191,831
6,506,067
19,697,898

(2,517,831)
819,933
(1,697,898)

109%

29,059,000

30,577,747

(1,518,747)

105%

(19,827,000)

(21,071,283)

(1,244,283)

4,964,000
12,335,000
7,492,000
0
0
0
0
(4,964,000)
19,827,000

4,828,318
12,066,760
9,116,301
0
37,088
0
(12,817)
(4,964,367)
21,071,283

(135,682)
(268,240)
1,624,301
0
37,088
0
(12,817)
(367)
1,244,283

Revenues

Payroll
Fringes

Total Expenditures
Net Before Transfers
Transfers-In - Facilities Fee
Transfers-In - General Service Fee
Transfers-In - Other
Transfers-In - Plant Fund
Transfers-In - Encumbrances
Transfers-Out - Plant Fund
Transfers-Out - Encumbrances
Transfers-Out - Debt Service
Net Transfers
Difference

Original
Budget
$9,232,000

$0

$0

$0

The FY 2019 Budget Assumptions and Narratives of the Original Budget and Actual Results are integral to this statement.

9

 The University of Akron
Akron and Wayne Auxiliary Funds Combined
FY19 Original Budget and Actual Results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019

Residence Life & Housing
Original
Budget
$19,830,000

Actual
$19,014,962

Total Compensation

847,000
356,000
1,203,000

802,538
345,161
1,147,699

44,462
10,839
55,301

95%

Operating
Scholarships
Total Non Personnel

7,980,000
0
7,980,000

7,099,710
0
7,099,710

880,290
0
880,290

89%

9,183,000

8,247,409

935,591

90%

10,647,000

10,767,553

120,553

0
0
0
0
0
0
0
(10,647,000)
(10,647,000)

0
0
0
0
5,520
0
(37,458)
(10,646,776)
(10,678,714)

0
0
0
0
5,520
0
(37,458)
224
(31,714)

Revenues

Payroll
Fringes

Total Expenditures
Net Before Transfers
Transfers-In - Facilities Fee
Transfers-In - General Service Fee
Transfers-In - Other
Transfers-In - Plant Fund
Transfers-In - Encumbrances
Transfers-Out - Plant Fund
Transfers-Out - Encumbrances
Transfers-Out - Debt Service
Net Transfers
Difference

$0

$88,839

$ Budget
% of
Variance
Budget
($815,038)
96%

$88,839

The FY 2019 Budget Assumptions and Narratives of the Original Budget and Actual Results are integral to this statement.

10

 The University of Akron
Akron and Wayne Auxiliary Funds Combined
FY19 Original Budget and Actual Results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019

EJ Thomas Performing Arts Hall
Original
Budget
$2,441,000

Actual
$2,214,474

Total Compensation

357,000
127,000
484,000

226,936
87,789
314,725

130,064
39,211
169,275

65%

Operating
Scholarships
Total Non Personnel

2,567,000
0
2,567,000

2,322,437
0
2,322,437

244,563
0
244,563

90%

3,051,000

2,637,162

413,838

86%

Revenues

Payroll
Fringes

Total Expenditures
Net Before Transfers
Transfers-In - Facilities Fee
Transfers-In - General Service Fee
Transfers-In - Other
Transfers-In - Plant Fund
Transfers-In - Encumbrances
Transfers-Out - Plant Fund
Transfers-Out - Encumbrances
Transfers-Out - Debt Service
Net Transfers
Difference

$ Budget
% of
Variance
Budget
($226,526)
91%

(610,000)

(422,688)

187,312

0
0
937,000
0
0
0
0
(327,000)
610,000

0
0
970,469
0
28,832
(213,500)
0
(326,899)
458,902

0
0
33,469
0
28,832
(213,500)
0
101
(151,098)

$36,214

$36,214

$0

The FY 2019 Budget Assumptions and Narratives of the Original Budget and Actual Results are integral to this statement.

11

 The University of Akron
Akron and Wayne Auxiliary Funds Combined
FY19 Original Budget and Actual Results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019

Dining (Aramark)
Original
Budget
$3,297,000

Actual
$4,060,090

Total Compensation

125,000
275,000
400,000

78,915
262,982
341,897

46,085
12,018
58,103

85%

Operating
Scholarships
Total Non Personnel

1,606,000
0
1,606,000

1,341,535
0
1,341,535

264,465
0
264,465

84%

Total Expenditures

2,006,000

1,683,432

322,568

84%

Net Before Transfers

1,291,000

2,376,658

1,085,658

Revenues

Payroll
Fringes

Transfers-In - Facilities Fee
Transfers-In - General Service Fee
Transfers-In - Other
Transfers-In - Plant Fund
Transfers-In - Encumbrances
Transfers-Out - Plant Fund
Transfers-Out - Encumbrances
Transfers-Out - Debt Service
Net Transfers
Difference

0
0
0
0
0
0
0
(776,000)
(776,000)
$515,000

0
0
0
0
22,079
(8,397)
(46,397)
(776,016)
(808,731)
$1,567,927

$ Budget
% of
Variance
Budget
$763,090
123%

0
0
0
0
22,079
(8,397)
(46,397)
(16)
(32,731)
$1,052,927

The FY 2019 Budget Assumptions and Narratives of the Original Budget and Actual Results are integral to this statement.

12

 The University of Akron
Akron and Wayne Auxiliary Funds Combined
FY19 Original Budget and Actual Results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019

Recreation & Wellness Services
Original
Budget
$573,000

Actual
$609,309

Total Compensation

551,000
245,000
796,000

554,518
242,342
796,860

Operating
Scholarships
Total Non Personnel

1,850,000
0
1,850,000

Revenues

Payroll
Fringes

Total Expenditures
Net Before Transfers
Transfers-In - Facilities Fee
Transfers-In - General Service Fee
Transfers-In - Other
Transfers-In - Plant Fund
Transfers-In - Encumbrances
Transfers-Out - Plant Fund
Transfers-Out - Encumbrances
Transfers-Out - Debt Service
Net Transfers
Difference

$ Budget
% of
Variance
Budget
$36,309
106%

(3,518)
2,658
(860)

100%

1,827,329
0
1,827,329

22,671
0
22,671

99%

2,646,000

2,624,189

21,811

99%

(2,073,000)

(2,014,880)

58,120

1,693,000
0
2,073,000
0
0
0
0
(1,693,000)
2,073,000

1,646,177
0
2,414,020
0
61,728
(295,000)
(12,152)
(1,692,562)
2,122,211

(46,823)
0
341,020
0
61,728
(295,000)
(12,152)
438
49,211

$107,331

$107,331

$0

The FY 2019 Budget Assumptions and Narratives of the Original Budget and Actual Results are integral to this statement.

13

 The University of Akron
Akron and Wayne Auxiliary Funds Combined
FY19 Original Budget and Actual Results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019

Jean Hower Taber Student Union
Original
Budget
$946,000

Actual
$1,002,068

Total Compensation

602,000
260,000
862,000

591,082
256,526
847,608

10,918
3,474
14,392

98%

Operating
Scholarships
Total Non Personnel

1,891,000
0
1,891,000

1,848,739
0
1,848,739

42,261
0
42,261

98%

2,753,000

2,696,347

56,653

98%

(1,807,000)

(1,694,279)

112,721

2,912,000
0
1,807,000
0
0
0
0
(2,912,000)
1,807,000

2,832,502
0
1,887,305
0
26,670
0
(12,236)
(2,912,314)
1,821,927

(79,498)
0
80,305
0
26,670
0
(12,236)
(314)
14,927

Revenues

Payroll
Fringes

Total Expenditures
Net Before Transfers
Transfers-In - Facilities Fee
Transfers-In - General Service Fee
Transfers-In - Other
Transfers-In - Plant Fund
Transfers-In - Encumbrances
Transfers-Out - Plant Fund
Transfers-Out - Encumbrances
Transfers-Out - Debt Service
Net Transfers
Difference

$0

$127,648

$ Budget
% of
Variance
Budget
$56,068
106%

$127,648

The FY 2019 Budget Assumptions and Narratives of the Original Budget and Actual Results are integral to this statement.

14

 The University of Akron
Akron and Wayne Auxiliary Funds Combined
FY19 Original Budget and Actual Results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019

Parking & Transportation Services
Original
Budget
$7,222,000

Actual
$6,778,971

Total Compensation

266,000
107,000
373,000

227,085
85,681
312,766

38,915
21,319
60,234

84%

Operating
Scholarships
Total Non Personnel

2,969,000
0
2,969,000

2,353,874
0
2,353,874

615,126
0
615,126

79%

Total Expenditures

3,342,000

2,666,640

675,360

80%

Net Before Transfers

3,880,000

4,112,331

232,331

0
0
1,600,000
0
0
(1,000,000)
0
(4,480,000)
(3,880,000)

0
0
1,843,345
50,601
89,235
(1,600,000)
(15,984)
(4,479,528)
(4,112,331)

0
0
243,345
50,601
89,235
(600,000)
(15,984)
472
(232,331)

Revenues

Payroll
Fringes

Transfers-In - Facilities Fee
Transfers-In - General Service Fee
Transfers-In - Other
Transfers-In - Plant Fund
Transfers-In - Encumbrances
Transfers-Out - Plant Fund
Transfers-Out - Encumbrances
Transfers-Out - Debt Service
Net Transfers
Difference

$0

$0

$ Budget
% of
Variance
Budget
($443,029)
94%

$0

The FY 2019 Budget Assumptions and Narratives of the Original Budget and Actual Results are integral to this statement.

15

 The University of Akron
Akron and Wayne Auxiliary Funds Combined
FY19 Original Budget and Actual Results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019

Wayne Student Union
Original
Budget
$64,000

Actual
$47,479

Total Compensation

0
0
0

0
0
0

0
0
0

Operating
Scholarships
Total Non Personnel

10,000
0
10,000

9,204
0
9,204

796
0
796

92%

Total Expenditures

10,000

9,204

796

92%

Net Before Transfers

54,000

38,275

0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

$54,000

$38,275

Revenues

Payroll
Fringes

Transfers-In - Facilities Fee
Transfers-In - General Service Fee
Transfers-In - Other
Transfers-In - Plant Fund
Transfers-In - Encumbrances
Transfers-Out - Plant Fund
Transfers-Out - Encumbrances
Transfers-Out - Debt Service
Net Transfers
Difference

$ Budget
% of
Variance
Budget
($16,521)
74%

(15,725)
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
($15,725)

The FY 2019 Budget Assumptions and Narratives of the Original Budget and Actual Results are integral to this statement.

16

 The University of Akron
Auxiliaries
FY19 Budget Assumptions
Overall Assumptions
Revenues: Assumes an overall seven percent enrollment decline.
Payroll: Assumes three percent increase pursuant to collective bargaining agreements and a raise
pool equivalent to three percent for non-represented full-time employees.
Fringes: Assumes benefits such as 14 percent employer contribution to the respective retirement
System, University contribution toward employee group insurance, employee and dependent fee
remission, and University portion of employee parking permits.
Transfers-Out Debt Service: Assumes debt service for Auxiliary facilities.
Unit Assumptions
Athletics
Revenues: Assumes externally generated revenues from various sources such as the MAC, game
guarantees, naming rights, ticket sales, grants-in-aid, IMG, and Coca-Cola.
Payroll: Contemplates rate increases as reflected in respective individual contracts.
Operating: Assumes a decrease of $242,000 as compared to the FY18 projection.
Scholarships: Assumes 225 Athletic financial aid awards.
Transfers-In: Revised Budget assumes Facilities Fee of $3.4 million from the General Fund and
$1.6 million from Facilities Fee reserve, General Service Fee of $12.3 million, and Other of $7.5
million in transfers from the General Fund.
Residence Life & Housing
Revenues: Assumes an 88 percent average occupancy.
Operating: Assumes an increase of $310,000 over the FY18 projection.
EJ Thomas Performing Arts Hall
Revenues: Assumes externally generated revenues from various sources such as Broadway
Series sales, Akron Civic Theater pass-through, hall rental, and endowment gifts.
Operating: Assumes largely flat operating as compared to the FY18 projection.

17

 The University of Akron
Auxiliaries
FY19 Budget Assumptions
Transfers-In: Assumes $.9 million which consists of $.8 million from the General Fund net of a
$32,000 reduction and $91,000 from unrestricted reserve.
Dining (Aramark)
Revenues: Assumes rent and other contractually provided revenues such as utilities,
maintenance, and equipment repair.
Compensation: The CWA employees remain University employees, with the University
responsible for the difference between FICA and SERS. All other employees are the sole
responsibility of Aramark.
Operating: Assumes an increase of $80,000 over the FY18 projection.
Recreation & Wellness Services
Revenues: Assumes externally generated revenues from various sources such as memberships,
pool rental, and locker and facility rentals.
Operating: Assumes largely flat operating as compared to the FY18 projection.
Transfers-In: Assumes Facilities Fee of $1.2 million from the General Fund and $.5 million
from Facilities Fee reserves, and Other of $2.1 million in transfers from the General Fund net of
$108,000 reduction.
Jean Hower Taber Student Union
Revenues: Assumes externally generated revenues from various sources such as bookstore space
rent, bank space rent, and room rentals.
Operating: Assumes an increase of $82,000 over the FY18 projection.
Transfers-In: Assumes Facilities Fee of $2 million from the General Fund and $.9 million from
Facilities Fee reserves; and Other of $1.8 million in transfers from the General Fund net of
$94,000 reduction.

18

 The University of Akron
Auxiliaries
FY19 Budget Assumptions
Parking & Transportation Services
Revenues: Assumes parking permits and transportation fee revenues decrease consistent with an
overall blended enrollment reduction of seven percent.
Operating: Assumes an increase of $382,000 over the FY18 projection.
Transfers-In: Assumes a $1 million transfer from the General Fund as well as Fund Balance
transfers to finance the West Campus Parking Deck repairs and other projects including lot and
deck repairs and lighting upgrades.
Transfers-Out Plant Fund: Original assumption reflected a transfer to fund the Administrative
Services Building (ASB) parking deck in the amount of $1 million. However, that $1 million plus
an additional $500,000 will be transferred to Plant Funds make capital repairs at the West Campus
Parking Deck.
Wayne Student Union
Revenues: Assumes externally generated revenues from bookstore space rent and room rentals.
Operating: Assumes largely flat operating as compared to the FY18 projection.

19

 The University of Akron
Akron and Wayne Auxiliary Funds Combined
Narrative of FY19 Original Budget and Actual Results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019

Athletics
Athletics actual revenues total $9.5 million as compared to annual budgeted revenues of $9.2
million. Major components of revenue include
Description
Actual
game guarantees (35 percent), Mid-American Game Guarantees
$3,366,000
Conference (27 percent), naming rights and gifts Mid-American Conference
2,525,000
(15 percent), and ticket sales (10 percent). Naming Rights and Gifts
1,413,000
Unearned revenue for season and single tickets is Other
919,000
904,000
realized in the fiscal year when the game is held. Ticket Sales
380,000
Currently, $278,000 is unearned. Earned revenues Pouring Rights
Total
$9,507,000
exceed the budget by $274,000, largely due to
supplements from game guarantees.
Payroll and fringes total $10.9 million or roughly 98 percent as compared to the annual budget of
$11.1 million.
Operating expenditures total $13.2 million or 124 percent as compared to the annual budget of
$10.7 million. The principal operating expenditures include team travel and recruiting (28 percent)
and athletic supplies (11 percent). Game guarantee payout generated additional cost that caused
the budget to be exceeded.
Scholarships, or Athletics financial aid, totaled $6.5 million or 89 percent as compared to the
annual budget of $7.3 million.
The other sources of funding include transfers-in of facilities fee (including reserve), general
service fee, and other budgeted at $5 million, $12.3 million, and $7.5 million, respectively. The
actual facilities fee totaling $4.8 million services a portion of the Stadium and Fieldhouse debt
while the Athletics actual general services fee, and other transfers-in combined total $21.2 million.
An unbudgeted Transfers-In - Other of $1.2 million offsets Athletics operating deficit.
At the end of each fiscal year, commitments often remain for goods and services that have not yet
arrived or been received by June 30. Those outstanding commitments are carried over to the
succeeding fiscal year, and become a liability and expenditure in that following year. The $37,000
Transfers-In – Encumbrances represents those types of commitments. The $13,000 Transfers-Out
– Encumbrances represents the liability and expenditures that carried over into FY20.
Transfers-Out – Debt Service of $5 million is in line with the budget and pays for the bonded debt
related to InfoCision Stadium (94 percent) and the Athletic Fieldhouse.

20

 The University of Akron
Akron and Wayne Auxiliary Funds Combined
Narrative of FY19 Original Budget and Actual Results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019

Residence Life & Housing
Residence Life & Housing actual revenues total $19 million as compared to the annual budgeted
revenues of $19.8 million. The principal revenues include residence hall occupancy (annual
average of 80 percent) and are predominately earned
Description
Actual
during the academic year. Currently, $598,000 is
Room
Rentals
$18,587,000
considered unearned revenue. While revenues fell short
Other
428,000
of projections, expenditures were managed and did not
Total
$19,015,000
exceed actual revenues earned.
Payroll and fringes total $1.1 million or roughly 95 percent as compared to the annual budget of
$1.2 million.
Operating expenditures total $7.1 million or 89 percent as compared to the annual budget of $8
million. The principal operating expenditures include maintenance (47 percent) and utilities (22
percent). Expenditures were managed to offset the decline in revenue and came in under budget
by $880,000.
At the end of each fiscal year, commitments often remain for goods and services that have not yet
arrived or been received by June 30. Those outstanding commitments are carried over to the
succeeding fiscal year, and become a liability and expenditure in that following year. The $6,000
Transfers-In – Encumbrances represents those types of commitments. The $37,000 Transfers-Out
– Encumbrances represents the liability and expenditures that carried over into FY20.
Transfer-Out – Debt Service of $10.6 million is in line with the budget and pays for the debt related
to the renovation of seven residence halls and construction of four new buildings.

21

 The University of Akron
Akron and Wayne Auxiliary Funds Combined
Narrative of FY19 Original Budget and Actual Results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019

EJ Thomas Performing Arts Hall
EJ Thomas Performing Arts Hall actual revenues total $2.2 million as compared to the annual
budgeted revenues of $2.4 million. The principal revenue include ticket sales (76 percent) and
hall rental (10 percent). Ticket revenue is
Description
Actual
$1,681,000
considered unearned until the show is held. Ticket Sales
223,000
Currently, EJ Thomas has $61,000 in unearned Hall Rental
171,000
revenue for the Broadway in Akron Series FY20 Endowment
Other
139,000
presale event.
Total
$2,214,000
Payroll and fringes total $315,000 or roughly 65 percent as compared to the annual budget of
$484,000. Expenditures came in under budget by $169,000 through vacant position savings.
Operating expenditures total $2.3 million or 90 percent as compared to the annual budget of $2.6
million. The principal operating expenditures include artist fees (33 percent), stage & wardrobe
(32 percent), consultant fees (14 percent), and utilities (10 percent). Expenditures were managed
and did not exceed the actual revenues earned.
Transfers-In – Other of $970,000 represents general-fund support for operations.
At the end of each fiscal year, commitments often remain for goods and services that have not yet
arrived or been received by June 30. Those outstanding commitments are carried over to the
succeeding fiscal year, and become a liability and expenditure in that following year. The $29,000
Transfers-In – Encumbrances represents those types of commitments.
Transfers-Out – Plant Fund of $214,000 represents the funding for EJ Thomas Performing Arts
Hall Lighting Upgrade Project.
Transfers-Out – Debt Service of $327,000 is in line with the budget and pays for the bonded debt
related to improvements and equipment from approximately 16 years ago.

22

 The University of Akron
Akron and Wayne Auxiliary Funds Combined
Narrative of FY19 Original Budget and Actual Results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019

Dining (Aramark)
Aramark actual revenues total $4.1 million as compared to the annual budgeted revenues of $3.3
million. Actual revenue collection accounts
Description
Actual
for 123% percent of the budget. The primary Rent
$2,572,000
revenues include rent (63 percent), and Aramark Grant
550,000
Aramark grant (14 percent).
Utilities Support
342,000
Facilities Support
297,000
POS/Card
Access
Support
181,000
Payroll and fringes total $342,000 or
Other
119,000
roughly 85 percent as compared to the
Total
$4,061,000
annual budget of $400,000. The $263,000
fringe benefits also include the difference between SERS and FICA for CWA employees who
remained with the University as well as certain Aramark employees performing work at the
University.
Operating expenditures total $1.3 million or 84 percent as compared to the annual budget of $1.6
million.
At the end of each fiscal year, commitments often remain for goods and services that have not yet
arrived or been received by June 30. Those outstanding commitments are carried over to the
succeeding fiscal year, and become a liability and expenditure in that following year. The $22,000
Transfers-In – Encumbrances represents those types of commitments. The $46,000 Transfers-Out
– Encumbrances represents the liability and expenditures that carried over into FY20.
Transfers-Out – Plant Fund of $8,000 represents funding for the Dining Service Freshens Project.
Transfers-Out – Debt Service of $776,000 is in line with the budget and pays the bonded debt
related to various buildouts of space and renovations including the dining hall and retail sites
located throughout the campus over the course of the last 12 to 19 years.

23

 The University of Akron
Akron and Wayne Auxiliary Funds Combined
Narrative of FY19 Original Budget and Actual Results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019

Recreation & Wellness Services
Recreation & Wellness Services actual revenues total $609,000 as compared to the annual
budgeted revenues of $573,000.
The
Description
Actual
principal revenues include memberships (33
$203,000
percent), swimming meets/lessons (29 Memberships
Swimming Meets & Lessons
178,000
percent), and rentals (21 percent). Facility
Rentals
126,000
rentals generated the additional revenue
Other
102,000
above budget.
Total
$609,000
Payroll and fringes total $797,000 or roughly 100 percent as compared to the annual budget of
$796,000. Three percent raises are reflected.
Operating expenditures total $1.8 million or 99 percent as compared to the annual budget of $1.9
million. The primary operating expenditures include maintenance (39 percent), student assistants
(36 percent), and utilities (17 percent). SRWS has over 200 student employees (90,000+ hours of
student employment) and has reviewed the hours and number of students working based on facility
use trends and strategically reduced the number of staff working to bring student assistant
compensation below budget by $40,000.
Transfers-in of $4.1 million represents facilities fee (including reserve) and general-fund support
to service the building’s bonded debt and operations, including support for capital projects of
$295,000.
At the end of each fiscal year, commitments often remain for goods and services that have not yet
arrived or been received by June 30. Those outstanding commitments are carried over to the
succeeding fiscal year, and become a liability and expenditure in that following year. The $62,000
Transfers-In – Encumbrances represents those types of commitments. The $12,000 Transfers-Out
– Encumbrances represents the liability and expenditures that carried over into FY20.
Transfers-Out – Plant Funds of $295,000 supported various capital projects including heat
exchanger and domestic hot water boilers.
Transfer-Out – Debt Service of $1.7 million is in line with the budget and services the debt
requirements.

24

 The University of Akron
Akron and Wayne Auxiliary Funds Combined
Narrative of FY19 Original Budget and Actual Results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019

Jean Hower Taber Student Union
The Student Union actual revenues total $1 million as compared to the annual budgeted revenues
of $946,000. The principal revenues include
Description
Actual
rental income (98 percent). Actual revenue Barnes & Noble Rental
$700,000
collection accounts for 106% percent of the Bank Rental
167,000
budget. Increase in bookstore sales and new and Room Rentals
113,000
repeat game and room rentals, generated the Other
22,000
Total
$1,002,000
additional revenue above budget.
Payroll and fringes total $848,000 or roughly 98 percent as compared to the annual budget of
$862,000. Three percent raises are reflected.
Operating expenditures total $1.8 million or 98 percent as compared to the annual budget of $1.9
million. The primary operating expenditures include maintenance (30 percent), utilities (26
percent), and student assistants (25 percent). Expenditures were below budget by $42,000.
Transfers-in of $4.7 million represents facilities fee and general-fund support to service the
building’s bonded debt and for operations, respectively.
At the end of each fiscal year, commitments often remain for goods and services that have not yet
arrived or been received by June 30. Those outstanding commitments are carried over to the
succeeding fiscal year, and become a liability and expenditure in that following year. The $27,000
Transfers-In – Encumbrances represents those types of commitments. The $12,000 Transfers-Out
– Encumbrances represents the liability and expenditures that carried over into FY20.
Transfers-Out – Debt Service of $2.9 million is in line with the budget and services the debt
requirements.

25

 The University of Akron
Akron and Wayne Auxiliary Funds Combined
Narrative of FY19 Original Budget and Actual Results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019

Parking Transportation & Services
Parking actual revenues total $6.8 million as compared
million. The primary sources of revenues are the
student transportation fee and parking permits (95
percent). Unearned revenue generated from parking
permits purchased before the semester begins is
recognized when the revenue recognition criteria is
met. Currently, $110,000 is being held in unearned
revenue. Revenues fell short of projection due to
enrollment decline.

to the annual budgeted revenues of $7.2
Description
Permits
Fines & Meters
Lot Rentals
Other
Total

Actual
$6,436,000
152,000
143,000
49,000
$6,780,000

Payroll and fringes total $313,000 or roughly 84 percent as compared to the annual budget of
$373,000.
Operating expenditures total $2.4 million or 79 percent as compared to the annual budget of $3
million. The primary operating costs include transportation related activities including busing,
parking lot, and deck maintenance (64 percent), and utilities (13 percent). Operating expenditures
were below budget by $615,000.
Transfers-In – Other of $1.8 million represents $1.1 million in general fund support for West
Campus Parking deck repairs and $743,000 from Parking Transportation & Services reserve.
The budgeted Transfers-Out – Plant Fund was intended to fund operations in the amount of
$600,000 and capital repairs of the Administrative Services Building (ASB) parking deck in the
amount of $1 million. However, a transfer to Plant Funds of $1.6 million will instead make capital
repairs at the West Campus Parking Deck while the ASB parking deck was not repaired this fiscal
year.
The capital expenditures to replace the expansion joints and drains within the Schrank Parking
Deck which has been isolated as the cause of water leakage occurring within Schrank Hall came
in under budget. The project did not require $51,000; therefore, it was returned from the Plant
Fund.
At the end of each fiscal year, commitments often remain for goods and services that have not yet
arrived or been received by June 30. Those outstanding commitments are carried over to the
succeeding fiscal year, and become a liability and expenditure in that following year. The $89,000
Transfers-In – Encumbrances represents those types of commitments. The $16,000 Transfers-Out
– Encumbrances represents the liability and expenditures that carried over into FY20.
26

 The University of Akron
Akron and Wayne Auxiliary Funds Combined
Narrative of FY19 Original Budget and Actual Results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019

Transfers-Out – Debt Service of $4.5 million is in line with the budget and services the debt service
requirement related to the renovation and construction of six parking decks.
Wayne Student Union
Wayne Student Union revenues total $47,000 as
$64,000.
The principal revenues include
bookstore rent (85 percent). While revenues fell
short of projections, expenditures were managed
and did not exceed the actual revenues earned.

compared to the annual budgeted revenues of

Description
Actual
Barnes & Noble Rental
$40,000
Other
6,000
Gifts
1,000
Total
$47,000
Operating expenditures total $9,200 or 92 percent as compared to the annual budget of $10,000.

Telecommunications
Telecommunications is no longer an operating auxiliary; thus, the related residual balance of
$173,000 in the Telecom auxiliary was transferred to the General Fund in November 2018.

27

 DEPARTMENTAL SALES AND
SERVICES FUNDS

For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2019

The University of Akron
Akron and Wayne Departmental Sales and Services Funds Combined
FY19 Original Budget and Actual Results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019

Departmental Sales and Services
Combined
Budget
% of
Variance $
Budget
($2,092,259)
95%

Original
Budget
$39,632,000

Actual
$37,539,741

Total Compensation

2,535,000
898,000
3,433,000

2,740,341
948,298
3,688,639

(205,341)
(50,298)
(255,639)

107%

Operating
Premiums and Claims
Capital
Total Non Personnel

3,142,000
31,670,000
8,000
34,820,000

3,412,730
26,392,457
27,354
29,832,541

(270,730)
5,277,543
(19,354)
4,987,459

86%

38,253,000

33,521,180

4,731,820

88%

1,379,000

4,018,561

2,639,561

400,000
384,113
77,633
(2,368,534)
(293,452)
(1,800,240)

400,000
384,113
77,633
(2,368,534)
(293,452)
(1,800,240)

$2,218,321

$839,321

Revenues
Payroll
Fringes

Total Expenditures
Net Before Transfers
Transfers-In - Other
Transfers-In - Encumbrances
Transfers-In - Carryover
Transfers-Out - Other
Transfers-Out - Encumbrances
Net Transfers
Difference

0
0
0
0
0
0
$1,379,000

The FY 2019 Budget Assumptions and Narratives of the Original Budget and Actual Results are integral to this statement.

28

 The University of Akron
Akron and Wayne Departmental Sales and Services Funds Combined
FY19 Original Budget and Actual Results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019

Self-Insurance Health Care
Budget
% of
Variance $
Budget
($2,675,578)
92%

Original
Budget
$32,979,000

Actual
$30,303,422

Total Compensation

$141,000
53,000
194,000

129,893
48,410
178,303

Operating
Premiums and Claims
Total Non Personnel

158,000
31,670,000
31,828,000

286,947
26,392,457
26,679,404

(128,947)
5,277,543
5,148,596

84%

32,022,000

26,857,707

5,164,293

84%

957,000

3,445,715

2,488,715

(2,265,000)
(2,265,000)

(2,265,000)
(2,265,000)

$1,180,715

$223,715

Revenues
Payroll
Fringes

Total Expenditures
Net Before Transfers
Transfers-Out - Other
Net Transfers
Difference

0
0
$957,000

11,107
4,590
15,697

92%

The FY 2019 Budget Assumptions and Narratives of the Original Budget and Actual Results are integral to this statement.

29

 The University of Akron
Akron and Wayne Departmental Sales and Services Funds Combined
FY19 Original Budget and Actual Results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019

Workforce Training Solutions
(Formerly UA Solutions)

Budget
% of
Variance $
Budget
$149,436
120%

Original
Budget
$750,000

Actual
$899,436

Total Compensation

211,000
60,000
271,000

327,217
104,741
431,958

(116,217)
(44,741)
(160,958)

159%

Total Non Personnel

377,000
377,000

304,990
304,990

72,010
72,010

81%

Total Expenditures

648,000

736,948

(88,948)

114%

Net Before Transfers

102,000

162,488

60,488

19,740
(34,193)
(14,453)

19,740
(34,193)
(14,453)

148,036

$46,036

Revenues
Payroll
Fringes

Operating

Transfers-In - Encumbrances
Transfers-Out - Encumbrances
Net Transfers
Difference

0
0
0
$102,000

The FY 2019 Budget Assumptions and Narratives of the Original Budget and Actual Results are integral to this statement.

30

 The University of Akron
Akron and Wayne Departmental Sales and Services Funds Combined
FY19 Original Budget and Actual Results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019

New Student Orientation
Budget
% of
Variance $
Budget
($21,115)
96%

Original
Budget
$551,000

Actual
$529,885

Total Compensation

171,000
71,000
242,000

161,959
68,272
230,231

9,041
2,728
11,769

95%

Total Non Personnel

449,000
449,000

355,663
355,663

93,337
93,337

79%

Total Expenditures

691,000

585,894

105,106

85%

(140,000)

(56,009)

83,991

56,009
56,009

56,009
56,009

$0

$140,000

Revenues
Payroll
Fringes

Operating

Net Before Transfers
Transfers-In - Carryover
Net Transfers
Difference

0
0
($140,000)

The FY 2019 Budget Assumptions and Narratives of the Original Budget and Actual Results are integral to this statement.

31

 The University of Akron
Akron and Wayne Departmental Sales and Services Funds Combined
FY19 Original Budget and Actual Results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019

English Language Institute
Budget
% of
Variance $
Budget
($300,160)
48%

Original
Budget
$580,000

Actual
$279,840

Total Compensation

311,000
102,000
413,000

224,465
69,393
293,858

86,535
32,607
119,142

71%

Total Non Personnel

30,000
30,000

7,605
7,605

22,395
22,395

25%

Total Expenditures

443,000

301,463

141,537

68%

Net Before Transfers

137,000

(21,624)

(158,624)

0
0

21,624
21,624

21,624
21,624

$137,000

$0

Revenues
Payroll
Fringes

Operating

Transfers-In - Carryover
Net Transfers
Difference

($137,000)

The FY 2019 Budget Assumptions and Narratives of the Original Budget and Actual Results are integral to this statement.

32

 The University of Akron
Akron and Wayne Departmental Sales and Services Funds Combined
FY19 Original Budget and Actual Results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019

Other
Budget
% of
Variance $
Budget
$755,158
116%

Original
Budget
$4,772,000

Actual
$5,527,158

Total Compensation

1,701,000
612,000
2,313,000

1,896,807
657,481
2,554,288

(195,807)
(45,481)
(241,288)

110%

Total Non Personnel

2,128,000
8,000
2,136,000

2,457,525
27,354
2,484,879

(329,525)
(19,354)
(348,879)

116%

Total Expenditures

4,449,000

5,039,167

(590,167)

113%

323,000

487,991

164,991

400,000
364,373
(103,534)
(259,260)
401,579

400,000
364,373
(103,534)
(259,260)
401,579

889,570

$566,570

Revenues
Payroll
Fringes

Operating
Capital

Net Before Transfers
Transfers-In - Other
Transfers-In - Encumbrances
Transfers-Out - Other
Transfers-Out - Encumbrances
Net Transfers
Difference

0
0
0
0
0
$323,000

The FY 2019 Budget Assumptions and Narratives of the Original Budget and Actual Results are integral to this statement.

33

 The University of Akron
Departmental Sales and Services
FY19 Budget Assumptions

Overall Assumptions
Payroll: Assumes three percent increase pursuant to collective bargaining agreements and a raise
pool equivalent to three percent for non-represented full-time employees.
Fringes: Assumes application of the pooled rate for benefits such as 14 percent employer
contribution to the respective retirement system, University contribution toward employee group
insurance, employee and dependent fee remission, and University portion of employee permits.
Fund Assumptions
Self-Insurance Health Care
Revenues: Assumes University contributions to employee-provided benefits such as medical,
prescription drug, dental, long-term disability, and life insurance. Also assumes employee and
retiree contributions to benefit program for coverage that requires an employee cost share or is
voluntary (100 percent employee paid) such as medical, prescription drug, short-term and longterm disability, life insurance, vision, and flexible spending accounts.
Operating: Assumes the amounts expected to be paid for administrative and consulting fees.
Premiums and Claims: Assumes estimated cost for insurance premiums and self-insured claim
payments related to employee benefit program. Expenditures include components such as
medical, prescription drug, dental, stop loss insurance, and other ancillary benefits.
Workforce Training Solutions (Formerly UA Solutions)
Revenues: Assumes open enrollment and contract training fees revenues to support the
coordination of noncredit professional development classes open to the public and to provide
customized training for local companies.
Operating: Assumes expenditures such as student assistants, supplies and services, and travel
and hospitality. UA Solutions will manage to ensure expenditures are limited to revenues.
New Student Orientation
Revenues: Assumes commitment fee revenues to support the activities related to orientation and
first-year experience programs.
Operating: Assumes expenditures such as peer mentoring, New Roo Weekend, supplies and
services, and travel and hospitality. New Student Orientation will manage to ensure expenditures
are limited to revenues.

34

 The University of Akron
Departmental Sales and Services
FY19 Budget Assumptions

English Language Institute
Revenues: Assumes externally generated revenues from non-credit courses to teach English to
non-English speaking students who plan to attend a university in the United States.
Operating: Assumes expenditures such as student assistants, supplies and services, and travel
and hospitality. English Language Institute will manage to ensure expenditures are limited to
revenues.
Other
Revenues: Assumes about 140 smaller, revenue-generating activities such as internal Printing
Services, Hearing Aid Dispensary, and Akron Polymer Technology Services Testing.
Operating: Assumes expenditures such as student assistants, cost of goods sold (Crystal Room,
Computer Store, and Hearing Aid Dispensary), supplies and services, and travel and hospitality.
Individual management and the units will manage to ensure expenditures are limited to revenues.
In general, the units are anticipated to break even or generate a surplus.
Capital: Assumes equipment purchase related to chemistry testing activities.

35

 The University of Akron
Akron and Wayne Departmental Sales and Services Funds Combined
Narrative of FY19 Original Budget and Actual Results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019

Self-Insurance Health Care
Self-Insurance Health Care actual revenues total $30.3 million as compared to annual budgeted
revenues of $33 million. Major components of revenue include University contributions (84
percent) to employee-provided benefits such as medical, prescription drug, dental, long-term
disability, and life insurance. Revenues also include employee and retiree contributions (16
percent) to the benefit program for coverage that requires an employee cost share or is voluntary
participation (100 percent employee paid) such as medical, prescription drug, short-term and longterm disability, life insurance, vision, and flexible spending accounts. Revenues are roughly 8%
less than expected, largely attributable to a lower number of full-time employees than
contemplated in the budget.
Payroll and fringes total $178,000 compared
to the annual budget of $194,000.
Operating expenditures total $287,000 for
consulting and administrative services
compared to the annual budget of $158,000.
Premiums and Claims expenditures total
$26.4 million as compared to the annual
budget of $31.7 million. The variance is
attributable to reduced headcount and better than expected medical and prescription drug plan
experience.
The General Fund’s retiree dependent healthcare funding was sufficient without additional
support; therefore, the fiscal year 2017 support in the amount of $2.3 million was reversed and is
reflected under Transfers-Out – Other.
Workforce Training Solutions (Formerly UA Solutions)
Workforce Training Solutions actual revenues from open enrollment and contract training fees
total $899,000 or 120 percent as compared to the annual budgeted revenues of $750,000. Multiple
corporate training contracts are in place during the fiscal year. Revenue exceeded budget in part
due to a training contract for an 18 month period being collected prior to the completion of the
entire training. As a rule, revenue is collected after the completion of the training. Workforce
Training Solutions will have payroll expenditures deducted from this revenue through fiscal year
2020.
Payroll and fringes total $432,000 or 159 percent as compared to the annual budget of $271,000.
Generally payroll costs related to contract training is incurred prior to the associated revenue being
collected.
36

 The University of Akron
Akron and Wayne Departmental Sales and Services Funds Combined
Narrative of FY19 Original Budget and Actual Results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019

Operating expenditures total $305,000 or 81 percent as compared to the annual budget of
$377,000. The principal operating expenditures include supplies and services (87 percent) related
to training and instructional support.
At the end of each fiscal year, commitments often remain for goods and services that have not yet
arrived or been received by June 30. Those outstanding commitments are carried over to the
succeeding fiscal year, and become a liability and expenditure in that following year. The $20,000
Transfers-In – Encumbrances represents those types of commitments. The $34,000 Transfers-Out
– Encumbrances represents the liability and expenditures that carried over into fiscal year 2020.
New Student Orientation
New Student Orientation actual revenues total $530,000 or 96 percent as compared to the annual
budgeted revenues of $551,000.
Payroll and fringes total $230,000 or 95 percent as compared to the annual budget of $242,000.
Operating expenditures total $356,000 or 79 percent as compared to the annual budget of
$449,000. The principal operating expenditures include student assistants (33 percent) and Peer
Mentoring and New Roo Weekend (27 percent). Total expenditures are below budget.
The $56,000 deficit was offset by New Student Orientation carryover from fiscal year ended June
30, 2018.
English Language Institute
English Language Institute actual revenues total $280,000 or 48 percent as compared to the annual
budgeted revenues of $580,000.
Payroll and fringes total $294,000 or 71 percent as compared to the annual budget of $413,000.
Operating expenditures total $7,600 or 25 percent as compared to the annual budget of $30,000.
The principal operating expenditures include supplies and services (50 percent), communications
(37 percent) and student assistants (10 percent). Total expenditures are below budget.
The $22,000 deficit was offset by English Language Institute’s carryover from fiscal year ended
June 30, 2018.

Other
The Other departmental sales and services actual revenues total $5.5 million or 116 percent as
compared to the annual budgeted revenues of $4.8 million. The principal revenues are generated
from roughly 98 activities including Printing Services (16 percent), Hearing Aid Dispensary (six
37

 The University of Akron
Akron and Wayne Departmental Sales and Services Funds Combined
Narrative of FY19 Original Budget and Actual Results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019

percent), University Credit Card Program (five percent), Installment Payment Plan (five percent)
and CBA Executive Education (five percent).
Payroll and fringes total $2.6 million or
110 percent as compared to the annual
budget of $2.3 million.
Operating expenditures total $2.5 million
or 115 percent as compared to the annual
budget of $2.1 million. The primary
operating expenditures are supplies and
services (78 percent).
Capital expenditures total $27,000 compared to the annual budget of $8,000. Primary capital
expenditures are related to a middle-ear analyzer for the Hearing Aid Dispensary and the purchase
and servicing of equipment related to Polymer testing.
At the end of each fiscal year, commitments often remain for goods and services that have not yet
arrived or been received by June 30. Those outstanding commitments are carried over to the
succeeding fiscal year, and become a liability and expenditure in that following year. The
$364,000 Transfers-In – Encumbrances represents those types of commitments. The $259,000
Transfers-Out – Encumbrances represents the liability and expenditures that carried over into fiscal
year 2020.
The $400,000 Transfers-In – Other represents general fund support for the University’s National
Center for Education and Research on Corrosion and Materials Performance. The $104,000
Transfers-Out – Other represents the return to the general fund of the University Credit Card
Program balance and funding support for a Computer Aided Dispatch System.

38

 THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
RESOLUTION 10- -19
Acceptance of the Financial Report for the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2019

BE IT RESOLVED, That the recommendation presented by the Finance &
Administration Committee on October 9, 2019, accepting the Financial Report for the Fiscal
Year Ended June 30, 2019, be approved.

M. Celeste Cook, Secretary
Board of Trustees

October 9, 2019

 FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE
TAB 4

PROCUREMENTS FOR MORE THAN $500,000

THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING

October 9, 2019

 DATE:

September 23, 2019

TO:

Nathan J. Mortimer, CPA
Vice President for Finance & Administration/CFO

FROM:

Luba Cramer
Director of Purchasing

SUBJECT:

Awards Exceeding $500,000 for Board of Trustees Consideration and Approval

As requested of me, I provide to you the following procurements, which exceed $500,000 for
Board of Trustees consideration and approval at its meeting on October 9, 2019.
1.

Infrastructure Improvements - Electrical (State Capital Funds)
The Office of Capital Planning and Facilities Management is proposing an award to
Hilscher-Clarke Electric Company in the amount of $1,096,085 to replace deteriorated
medium-voltage cabling and associated equipment and complete the 23KV loop to ensure
stable and dependable electrical service on campus.
A project request was issued during August 2019, and four bids were received as follows:
Vendor
Hilscher-Clarke Electric Company
Thompson Electric, Inc.
Lake Erie Electric
Speelman Electric, Inc.

Bid
$1,096,085
$1,117,805
$1,379,150
$1,440,662

An award to Hilscher-Clarke Electric Company is recommended by the Office of Capital
Planning and Facilities Management and the Department of Purchasing as its bid is
deemed the lowest responsible bid. Should the Board approve the transaction, the vendor
award will occur once the Controlling Board approves it and General Counsel completes
its review for legal form and sufficiency.
I recommend that an award be made to Hilscher-Clarke Electric Company in the amount
of $1,096,085 and request approval of the Board of Trustees at its meeting on October 9,
2019.

 Board Items for Approval
September 23, 2019
Page 2

2.

Life & Disability Insurance (General and Other Funds and Employees)
The Inter-University Council (IUC) Purchasing Group, in conjunction with the IUC
Human Resources Group, solicited bids for Life & Disability Insurance Services for
calendar years 2020-2023 for active and retiree life insurance and active employee longand short-term disability. A request for proposal was issued and nine vendors responded.
Following the analysis of the proposals, the IUC groups recommended two options:
•
•

Securian for Life, and
Unum for Life and/or Disability

The University’s Office of Human Resources recommends an award to Unum for both
life and disability insurance based upon specific pricing and service. The final terms of
the master contract have been negotiated by the IUC Purchasing group and have been
reviewed by the University’s Office of General Counsel for legal form and sufficiency.
As reflected below, Unum has proposed a 13 percent rate decrease for active employee
and retiree life insurance and status quo for accidental death and dismemberment
(AD&D) and dependent life insurance.
The cost of life coverage is expected to be $1,132,000 annually of which the University
will pay approximately 60 percent while employees will pay the optional coverage, or 40
percent.
Life Insurance
Coverage

Current
Rate per
$1,000

Current
Premium

Proposed Rate
Per $1,000

Proposed
Premium

Employee Life

$4.46

$428,451

$3.86

$370,863

Employee Life
(Supplemental)

$4.46

$755,619

$3.86

$654,057

Retiree Life

$4.46

$62,315

$3.86

$53,939

AD&D

$0.22

$34,028

$0.22

$34,028

Dependent Life
(Opt 1)

$20.16

$987

$20.16

$987

Dependent Life
(Opt 2)

$40.32

$19,071

$40.32

$19,071

Total

$1,300,471

$1,132,945

As reflected below, Unum has proposed a 16 percent rate decrease for active employee
long-term disability insurance and a 19 percent decrease for short-term disability. The
annual cost of the long- and short-term disability coverage totals $317,000. For longterm disability, the University pays approximately 65 percent while employees will pay

 Board Items for Approval
September 23, 2019
Page 3

the optional coverage, or 35 percent. The short-term disability is a voluntary benefit and
is 100% employee paid.
Long-Term
Disability
Coverage
UA Provided
Supplemental

Current
Rate per
$100
$1.76
$6.12

Total

Current
Premium

Proposed Rate
Per $100

Proposed
Premium

$169,486
$93,222

$1.52
$5.28

$144,742
$76,472

$262,708

$221,214

Short-Term
Disability
Coverage

Current
Rate per
$10

Current
Premium

Proposed Rate
Per $10

Proposed
Premium

Under age 40

$3.58

$21,368

$2.89

$17,281

40-49
50-59

$3.17
$4.08

$25,832
$40,876

$2.56
$3.30

$20,842
$33,061

60 and over

$5.62

$30,870

$4.54

$24,933

Total

$118,946

$96,117

I recommend that an award be made to Unum in the amount of $1,450,279 annually for
four years and request your approval and that of the Board of Trustees at its meeting on
October 9, 2019.
3.

Medical Plan 3rd Party Administrator (General and Other Funds and Employees)
The Office of Human Resources proposes a one-year contract extension, with the option
for two additional renewals, to Anthem Blue Cross & Blue Shield to continue medical plan
third-party administrator services for plan year 2020 and potentially through 2022.
Anthem’s proposal includes no increase to administrative fees to provide medical plan
administration services for the first two years, and a maximum three percent increase for
the third year should the University pursue 2021 and 2022.
Final terms and conditions of the contract extension are subject to final negotiation between
the parties, approval by the Office of General Counsel as to the legal form and sufficiency,
and approval by you.
I recommend than an award be made to Anthem Blue Cross & Blue Shield in the amount
approximating $1,000,000 annually and request your approval and that of the Board of
Trustees at its meeting on October 9, 2019.

 THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
RESOLUTION 10- -19
Acceptance of Procurements for More Than $500,000

BE IT RESOLVED, that the following recommendations presented by the Finance &
Administration Committee on October 9, 2019 be approved:
Award to Hilscher-Clarke Electric Company a contract to replace medium-voltage
cabling and associated equipment and complete the 23KV loop in the amount of $1,096,085.
Award to Unum a contract for active and retiree life insurance and active employee longand short-term disability insurance in the annual amount of $1,450,279 for four years 20202023).
Award to Anthem Blue Cross & Blue Shield a one-year contract extension, with the
option for two additional renewals, to continue medical plan third-party administrator services
for plan year 2020 and up through 2022, in the annual amount of approximately $1,000,000.

M. Celeste Cook, Secretary
Board of Trustees

October 9, 2019

 FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE
TAB 5

REAL ESTATE
a) FORMER BALLET CENTER
b) 503 VINE STREET
c) PROPERTY TRANSACTION
AUTHORITY

THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING

October 9, 2019

 Office of the Vice President Akron, OH 44325-4706

General Counsel 11330-972-7753
f: 330-384-261 

e: jreilly@uokron.edu

 

Date: September 27, 2019

To: Nathan J. Mortimer
Vice President, Fi ance Administration/CFO

From: John J. Reill
Associate resident and Deputy General Counsel

Subject: Disposition of the former Ballet Center and 503 Vine Street and
Authorization for the Vice President for Finance and Administration/CFO
to conduct property transactions.

Please ?nd attached two resolutions to authorize the disposal of real property currently
owned by the University and commonly referred to as the ?Ballet Center? and ?503 Vine
Street.? Although the Board of Trustees has provided verbal authorization for the
disposition of these properties, the Ohio Department of Administrative Services has
advised me that it would prefer that their record include formal authorization by the Board
of Trustees. The attached resolutions provide such authorization.

Also attached is a third resolution, which authorizes the Vice President for Finance and
Administration/CFO to obtain, exchange andfor dispose of real and improved property,
subject to: the written approval of the Chair of the Board of Trustees, the Chair of the
Finance and Administration Committee of the Board of Trustees, and the President; 
review as to legal form and suf?ciency by the Of?ce of General Counsel; and approval
by the state of Ohio Department of Administrative Services. This authority will enable the
University administration to manage property matters timely and ef?ciently as
opportunities occur. This authorization expires in June, 2021 and all transactions must be
reported back to the Board of Trustees.

THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
RESOLUTION 10- -19
Pertaining to the Disposition of the Former Ballet Center

WHEREAS, The University of Akron (the "University'') is the owner of certain real and
improved property that is referred to as the "Ballet Center," which property is located at 354 East
Market Street, Akron, OH 44304 and consists of Permanent Parcel Number 68-41381; and
WHEREAS, The University has determined that the Ballet Center is no longer essential to
its mission; and therefore, it is no longer necessary for the University to retain ownership of the
Ballet Center; Now, Therefore,
BE IT RESOLVED, That the Office of the Vice President for Finance and
Administration/CFO and the Office of General Counsel are authorized to coordinate with the State
of Ohio, Department of Administrative Services ("DAS"), to dispose of the Ballet Center in a
manner acceptable to the University and DAS; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, That the University Administration is authorized to
execute such documents as may be necessary to conclude the transaction, subject to the approval
by the President and review for legal form and sufficiency by the Office of General Counsel; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, That the Vice President for Finance and
Administration/CFO will report back to the Board of Trustees at its next meeting following
conclusion of the transaction.

M. Celeste Cook, Secretary
Board of Trustees

October 9, 2019

 THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
RESOLUTION 10- -19
Pertaining to the Exchange of 503 Vine Street for
496-502 Vine Street

WHEREAS, The University of Akron (the “University”) is the owner of certain real
property that collectively is referred to as “503 Vine Street” and consists of Permanent Parcel
Numbers 67-07618, 67-07619, and 67-07620; and
WHEREAS, The Lone Star Alumni Association (“Lone Star”) is the owner of certain real
and improved property located at 496-502 Vine Street (the “Lone Star Property”), which consists
of Permanent Parcel Numbers 67-45192 and 67-60586; and
WHEREAS, The Lone Star Property’s location better meets the future needs of the
University because its location is contiguous to other properties owned by the University; and
WHEREAS, Lone Star is willing to exchange the Lone Star Property for 503 Vine Street
in a mutually beneficial transfer of ownership; Now, Therefore,
BE IT RESOLVED, That the Office of the Vice President for Finance and
Administration/CFO and the Office of General Counsel are authorized to coordinate with the State
of Ohio, Department of Administrative Services ("DAS"), to exchange 503 Vine Street for the
Lone Star Property in a manner acceptable to the University and DAS; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, That the University Administration is authorized to
execute such documents as may be necessary to conclude the transaction, subject to review for
legal form and sufficiency by the Office of General Counsel; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, That the Vice President for Finance and
Administration/CFO will report back to the Board of Trustees at its next meeting following
conclusion of the transaction.

M. Celeste Cook, Secretary
Board of Trustees

October 9, 2019

 THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
RESOLUTION 10- -19
Pertaining to the Acquisition, Exchange, and Disposition of
Real and Improved Property

WHEREAS, The University of Akron (the "University'') periodically reviews its need for
space and facilities on its campus in relation to the performance of its mission; and
WHEREAS, From time to time, the University may determine that certain real and
improved property no longer is critical to its mission, and/or that certain real and improved
property is better suited to meet the needs of the University’s mission; and
WHEREAS, The University desires to be able to manage these needs in a timely and
efficient manner; Now, Therefore,
BE IT RESOLVED, That the Vice President for Finance and Administration/CFO is
authorized to obtain, exchange and/or dispose of real and improved property, subject to the written
approval of the Chair of the Board of Trustees, the Chair of the Finance and Administration
Committee of the Board of Trustees, and the President; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, That the Vice President for Finance and
Administration/CFO is authorized to execute such documents as may be necessary to conclude the
transaction, subject to review for legal form and sufficiency by the Office of General Counsel and
consistent with the requirements of the State of Ohio and its Department of Administrative
Services; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, That the Vice President for Finance and
Administration/CFO will report back to the Board of Trustees at a future meeting soon following
the conclusion of the transaction; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, That such authority is effective upon the approval of this
resolution through June 30, 2021, unless otherwise revoked, modified, or extended by the Board.

M. Celeste Cook, Secretary
Board of Trustees

October 9, 2019

 FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE
TAB 6

OUTSOURCED CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER
(OCIO)

THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING

October 9, 2019

 DATE:

September 23, 2019

TO:

Nathan J. Mortimer, CPA
Vice President for Finance & Administration/CFO

FROM:

Sarah M. Chapman
Director, Treasury Services

SUBJECT:

Outsourced Chief Investment Officer (OCIO) Search

As requested of me, I provide to you the accompanying resolution for Board of Trustees
consideration and action at its meeting on October 9, 2019. The resolution authorizes the Vice
President for Finance & Administration/CFO to select an Outsourced Chief Investment Officer
(OCIO), subject to review and approval as to legal form and sufficiency by the Office of General
Counsel. As you prefer to do, the resolution has you informationally reporting the decision to
the Board of Trustees at a future meeting.
The resolution further anticipates that you will work with the selected OCIO to review and update,
as needed, the Investment Policy Statement (Policy) and formally return to the Board of Trustees
at a future meeting for its consideration and action on the Policy.

Human Resources
Akron, OH 44325-4733
330-972-6134 Office · 330-972-2323 Fax
The University of Akron is an Equal Education and Employment Institution

 THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
RESOLUTION 10- -19
Pertaining to the Pre-Authorization to Select
an Outsourced Chief Investment Officer and Investment Policy Statement

WHEREAS, The University of Akron and The University of Akron Foundation have
been conducting a joint search for an Outsourced Chief Investment Officer to manage the
University’s and Foundation’s endowments, respectively; and
WHEREAS, The Vice President for Finance and Administration/CFO is seeking
authorization to make an OCIO selection for The University of Akron at the completion of the
process and informationally report that decision to the Board of Trustees at a future Board
meeting; and
WHEREAS, The Vice President for Finance and Administration/CFO shall work with the
selected OCIO to review and update, as needed, the Investment Policy Statement and formally
bring the updated Investment Policy Statement to the Board of Trustees at a future meeting for its
consideration and action; Now, Therefore,
BE IT RESOLVED, That the Vice President for Finance and Administration/CFO is
authorized to act as necessary to select an Outsourced Chief Investment Officer, subject to
review and approval as to legal form and sufficiency by the Office of General Counsel; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, That the Vice President for Finance and
Administration/CFO will informationally report back to the Board of Trustees at an upcoming
meeting regarding the University decision for the Outsourced Chief Investment Officer.

M. Celeste Cook, Secretary
Board of Trustees

October 9, 2019

 FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE
TAB 7

DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLANS:
ADMINISTRATIVE AND FIDUCIARY
OVERSIGHT

THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING

October 9, 2019

 DATE:

September 23, 2019

TO:

Nathan J. Mortimer, CPA
Vice President for Finance & Administration/CFO

FROM:

Sarah J. Kelly
Associate Vice President for Human Resources/CHRO

SUBJECT:

The University of Akron’s Defined Contribution Plans

As requested of me, I provide to you the accompanying resolution for Board of Trustees
consideration and action at its meeting on October 9, 2019. The resolution designates the Vice
President for Finance & Administration/CFO as the University’s defined contribution plan
administrator and fiduciary. As such, the Vice President for Finance & Administration (or
comparable role should the title change in the future) will serve as the plan administrator, who
has the authority to oversee and direct the management and administration of the University’s
defined contribution plans.
In recent years, employer-sponsored defined contribution plans (e.g., 401k and 403b plans) have
become subject to increased scrutiny. Non-Public sector plan sponsors have also been subject to
a growing number of unfavorable litigation outcomes which resulted in alleged failures that plan
sponsors did not exercise enough fiduciary oversight. These issues raised concern for many
public employers, including The University of Akron and the passage of the resolution will help
ensure the University fulfills its fiduciary responsibilities.
As you know, the Inter-University Council Risk Management & Insurance Consortium (IUCRMIC) supported a request for proposal process that secured Cammack Associates to help
member institutions develop approaches to address the various concerns. As a result of the
process, The University of Akron engaged Cammack Associates.

Human Resources
Akron, OH 44325-4733
330-972-6134 Office · 330-972-2323 Fax
The University of Akron is an Equal Education and Employment Institution

 THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
RESOLUTION 10- - 19
Administrative and Fiduciary Oversight of Defined Contribution Plans
Sponsored by The University of Akron

WHEREAS, The University of Akron (the “University”) sponsors and maintains the
following defined contribution plans (Plans):
(i)

The University of Akron Alternative Retirement Plan (“ARP”), a defined
contribution plan under section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended, (the “Code”);

(ii)

The University of Akron 403(b) Tax Sheltered Annuity Program (“403(b) Plan”),
a defined contribution plan under Code Section 403(b);

(iii)

The University of Akron Qualified Governmental Excess Benefit Arrangement
(“415(m) Plan”), a defined contribution plan under Code Section 415(m);

(iv)

The University of Akron 457(b) Deferred Compensation Plan (“457(b) Plan”), a
defined contribution plan under Code Section 457(b); (collectively the
“Retirement Plans”); and

WHEREAS, As the sponsor and administrator of the Plans, the University has certain
fiduciary and administrative responsibilities, and must act for the exclusive benefit of the Plans
and their beneficiaries;
WHEREAS, The Board of Trustees recognizes that the University acts as a fiduciary,
insofar as it exercises discretion for administration and oversight of its Plans; and
WHEREAS, The Board of Trustees desires to delegate these fiduciary and administrative
plan oversight responsibilities to the Vice President for Finance & Administration and Chief
Financial Officer (“VP for Finance”) or comparable University role should the title ever change,
and to delegate to the Finance Committee of the Board of Trustees, the fiduciary oversight and
monitoring to the VP for Finance; Now, Therefore,
BE IT RESOLVED, Pursuant to Sections 1.1 and 3.4 of the ARP, the Board of Trustees
designates the VP for Finance to fulfill the duties and have the powers of the Employer under the
ARP; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, Pursuant to Adoption Agreement, Section 2(c), and
Basic Plan Document, Section 1.3, of the 403(b) Plan, the Board of Trustees designates the VP
for Finance as the Administrator under the 403(b) Plan; and

 2
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, Pursuant to Section 6.1 of the Plan Document of the
415(m) Plan, the Board of Trustees designates the VP for Finance as the Administrator under the
415(m) Plan; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, Pursuant to Section 3.01 of the 457(b) Plan Document,
the Board of Trustees designates the VP for Finance as the Plan Administrator under the 457(b)
Plan; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, The Board of Trustees designates fiduciary oversight
and monitoring of the VP for Finance to the Finance Committee of the Board of Trustees; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, The VP for Finance is hereby authorized to take such
actions that he or she deems necessary or advisable, and to utilize necessary University personnel
and resources, to perform the fiduciary and administrative duties delegated to him or her
pursuant to this resolution; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, The VP for Finance shall report to the Finance
Committee of the Board of Trustees regarding the Plans at least annually.

M. Celeste Cook, Secretary
Board of Trustees

October 9, 2019

 FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE
TAB 8

NAMING OPPORTUNITIES

a) THE DR. FLORENCE L. DENMARK
GALLERY OF SOCIAL CHANGE
b) THE LYNN RODEMAN METZGER
GALLERIES

THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING

October 9, 2019

 DATE:

October 9, 2019

TO:

Paula D. Neugebauer, Coordinator
Office of the Board of Trustees

FROM:

Terrie L. Sampson
Director, Development Stewardship

SUBJECT:

Proposed Resolutions for Naming gallery spaces in The Drs. Nicholas and Dorothy
Cummings Center for the History of

Please find attached two resolutions detailing recommended actions to name separate galleries
in the Drs. Nicholas and Dorothy Cummings Center for the History of Psychology; one in honor
of Dr. Florence Denmark and the other in memory of Dr. Lynn Rodeman Metzger.
Dr. Denmark, a renowned psychologist and member of the Cummings Center Advisory Board,
provided funding for the creation of the Psychology of Social Change Gallery. This gallery
features wall-oriented exhibits, which highlight images, text and objects associated with
psychologists whose work has made a substantial impact on human society.
The second resolution is to name the rotating gallery space in the Cumming Center in memory
of Dr. Lynn Rodeman Metzger, a University of Akron alumna, benefactor and long-time
educator and mentor, who was instrumental in creating the University’s archeology
department. The gallery is a single room on the fourth floor which can be configured into
distinct gallery spaces.
These proposed naming recommendations are appropriate and consistent with the University’s
Named Gift and Endowment Opportunities Policy Statement, Guidelines and Procedures.

Department of Development
Akron, Ohio 44325-2603
330-972-7238 (Office) 330-972-3800 (Fax)
The University of Akron is an Equal Education and Employment Institution

 THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
RESOLUTION 10- -19
Pertaining to the Naming of
The Dr. Florence L. Denmark Gallery of Social Change

WHEREAS, Dr. Florence L. Denmark is a member of advisory board for The Drs.
Nicholas and Dorothy Cummings Center for the History of Psychology at The University of
Akron; and
WHEREAS, As a Founding Fellow of the Cummings Center, Dr. Florence L. Denmark
has provided significant support to the Center and the National Museum of Psychology,
including for the creation of a gallery in the on-campus museum; and
WHEREAS, The gallery features wall-oriented exhibits, which highlight images, text and
objects associated with psychologists whose work has made a substantial impact on human
society; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Florence L. Denmark is an internationally recognized psychologist,
scholar, researcher, and policy maker, who is considered to be a pioneer in the psychology of
women, and who previously served as president of multiple professional organizations, including
the New York State Psychological Association, the American Psychological Association, and the
International Council of Psychologists, and served as the American Psychological Association’s
representative to the United Nations; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Florence L. Denmark is the first woman to graduate as a double honors
major in history and psychology from the University of Pennsylvania, where she also earned her
doctoral degree is social psychology; and,
WHEREAS, Dr. Florence L. Denmark has held academic positions at Queens College,
Hunter College and the Graduate School of the City University of New York, and is the retired
emeritus Robert Scott Pace Distinguished Professor of Psychology at Pace University in New
York; Now, Therefore,
BE IT RESOLVED, That the Psychology of Social Change Gallery in the National
Museum of Psychology within the Drs. Nicholas and Dorothy Cummings Center for the History
of Psychology be named The Dr. Florence L. Denmark Gallery of Social Change in honor of Dr.
Florence L. Denmark’s support for, and dedication to the Cummings Center for the History of
Psychology.

M. Celeste Cook, Secretary
Board of Trustees

October 9, 2019

 THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
RESOLUTION 10- -19
Pertaining to the Naming of the
Lynn Rodeman Metzger Galleries

WHEREAS, Dr. Lynn Rodeman Metzger received bachelor’s and master’s degrees in
history from The University of Akron, and a Ph.D. in anthropology from Case Western Reserve
University; and,
WHEREAS, Dr. Lynn Rodeman Metzger, a cultural anthropologist, taught and mentored
University of Akron students for more than 30 years, and was instrumental in developing and
promoting the University’s archeology program and providing outreach to community
organizations to evaluate their cultural resources; and
WHEREAS, Dr. Lynn Rodeman Metzger, a noted scholar and researcher, co-authored
two books, “Joe’s Place” and “Canal Fever,” and edited a third, titled “Along the Towpath;” and
WHEREAS, Dr. Lynn Rodeman Metzger, and her husband, Edward Metzger, established
two funds at the University, which were combined in 2017 to form The Lynn Rodeman Metzger
Endowed Curatorship in Anthropology. The fund supports a curator position at The Oak Native
American Gallery housed within the Institute for Human Science and Culture at The Drs.
Nicholas and Dorothy Cummings Center for the History of Psychology; and
WHEREAS, The Institute for Human Science and Culture contains a rotating gallery
space on the newly renovated fourth floor of the Cummings Center for the History of
Psychology, which provides special exhibit and presentation space for students in the Institute’s
museum certificate program; Now, Therefore,
BE IT RESOLVED, That the rotating gallery space in the Institute for Human Science
and Culture be named the Lynn Rodeman Metzger Galleries in her memory.

M. Celeste Cook, Secretary
Board of Trustees

October 9, 2019

 FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE
TAB 9

GIFTS

THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING

October 9, 2019

 DATE:

September 23, 2019

TO:

Kimberly M. Cole
Vice President, Advancement
Executive Director, The University of Akron Foundation

FROM:

Terrie L. Sampson
Director, Development Stewardship

SUBJECT:

Gift attainment for Fiscal Year 2020 (July 1 – August 31, 2019)

Attached are gift attainment charts for fiscal year 2020. Attachment A details giving through
cash, pledges due, bequests received, as well as gifts-in-kind from University of Akron
constituents for the first two months of the fiscal year from July 1, 2019 to August 31, 2019.
Of note:
• Total attainment from July 1, 2019 to August 31, 2019 is $2,214,126.
•

Giving by alumni increased nearly 92 percent in the first two months of fiscal year 2020
over the same time period in fiscal year 2019.

•

New donors to The University of Akron provided $241,256 in the first two months of
fiscal year 2020, with 53 percent of that total coming from alumni, 31 percent from
friends and 16 percent from corporations, organization and foundations.

With your approval, I request submission of this report to the Board of Trustees for approval at
its October 9, 2019.

Department of Development
Akron, Ohio 44325-2603
330-972-7238 (Office) 330-972-3800 (Fax)
The University of Akron is an Equal Education and Employment Institution

 Attachment A

DEPARTMENT OF DEVELOPMENT
FY 2020 Attainment
July 1, 2019 through August 31, 2019

Page 1 of 4

 Attachment A

The University of Akron and The University of Akron Foundation

Giving by Constituent Type
July 1 August 31, 2019 FY 2020

$474,668 $530126

     
  

IAlumni 

I: Friends 
IEmployees 
ICorps./Orgs. 

I Foundations 

$202,507

$836,053
$16,263

The University of Akron and The University of Akron Foundation

Gifts by Classification Type
July 1 August 31, 2019 FY 2020

$23, 585

$255,671
I Operations 

IEndowment 

IGifts?in?Kind 

$1,227,044

Page 2 of 4

Attachment A

The University of Akron and The University of Akron Foundation

GifB (no pledges) by Academic Area
July 1 August 31, 2019 FY 2020

$1 570 .Athletics 

I $54,625 I .Applied Science and Technology 

        
 
    

.BLiChtel College of Arts 8L SCIences 

I $60 172 .. $1?620 .BLisiness Administration 

.Cummings Center 

   

$395
.Education 
I $46,872_ .-
IEngineering 
. $137,026 .Health Professions 
I $41470. ILaw 
Libraries 
.Polymer Science 8: Polymer Eng 
I $72,634 .Wayne159?i
. $3145 Williams Honors 
The University ofAkron and The University ofAkron Foundation
Gifts by Constituent Type
July 1 August 31 FY 2018 FY 2020
$7,000,000
$5,000,000 
$5,000,000
$4,000,000
$3,000,000
$2,000,000
$1,000,000
$0 - - 
Alumni Frie Corpflijrgs Foundations
.2017 ?2018 $291,011 $187,839 $815,818 $1,988,985
.2018 2019 $278,307 $8,587,359 $874,173 $854,710
I 2019 2020 $533,199 $215,897 $838,053 $474,888

a DistributionsfromJean HowerTaber estate ($6,371,603)

Page 3 of 4

Attachment A

The University of Akron and The University of Akron Foundation

Total Giving by New Donors
July 1 August 31, 2019 FY 2020

 

 

 

 

. I $4,500
2%
[Alumni
I Friends
ICorpfOrgs
I Foundation
$74,135 
31%
ra nd Total
$241 ,256

 

Page 4 of 4

THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
RESOLUTION 10- -19
Acceptance of Gift Income Report for July 2019 through August 2019
BE IT RESOLVED, That the recommendation of the Finance & Administration
Committee on October 9, 2019, pertaining to acceptance of the Gift Income Report for
July 2019 through August 2019, be approved.

M. Celeste Cook, Secretary
Board of Trustees

October 9, 2019

 FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE
TAB 10

INFORMATIONAL PURCHASE REPORTS
a) $25,000 TO $500,000

THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING

October 9, 2019

 DATE:

September 16, 2019

TO:

Nathan J. Mortimer, CPA
Vice President for Finance & Administration/CFO

FROM:

Luba Cramer
Interim Director of Purchasing

SUBJECT:

Board Informational Report: Purchases Between $25,000 and $500,000

The following purchases, all of which were entered into following University policy, were made
subsequent to the last meeting of the Board of Trustees.
The accompanying Reports for July and August 2019 are submitted for the Board’s information.

Department of Purchasing
Akron, OH 44325-9001
330-972-5965 Office · 330-972-5564 Fax
The University of Akron is an Equal Education and Employment Institution

 The University of Akron
Purchases Between $25,000 and $500,000
July 2019
Informational Report
FUND
General

Auxiliary

Grant
Restricted

VENDOR NAME

P.O. No.
or Pcard

Blackboard Inc.
Oracle America Inc.
Schindler Elevator Corporation
Davis Printing Company Inc.
Adobe Systems Inc.
Greenleaf Family Center
Greater Akron Deaf Services Inc.
Treasurer State of Ohio
Inter-University Council of Ohio
CDW Government Inc.
Certified Pest Control
Cargill Inc.
Polaris Recruitment Communications
Vickie L. Sayre, CPA
Gardiner Service Company LLC

99222
98847
99129
B2034097
99203
B2088020
B2087568
B2011443
99209
99185
B2088356
B2089053
B2091976
99070
B2085092

Metro Regional Transit Authority
Survoy's Superior Service Inc.
Firestone Country Club
Millcraft Paper Co. Inc.
General Parts LLC
Ticketmaster LLC
Lakefront Lines Inc.
AIS Commercial Parts & Service Inc.
Nagel Advertising

B2090652
B2088967
B2015488
B2051746
B2089562
99045
99125
B2094995
B2093826

Subtotal

Subtotal
Nikon Instruments Inc.
WKYC
WKYC

99068
99163
98336

AMOUNT
$

$
$

$
$
$

Subtotal $
Total $

253,162
209,852
127,781
125,000
101,500
100,000
85,000
75,000
72,239
69,143
66,989
57,000
55,000
55,000
50,000
1,502,666
350,000
125,000
78,000
59,000
55,000
52,500
51,330
50,000
50,000
870,830
38,025
120,000
60,638
180,638
2,592,159

COMMENTS
Student Financial Aid Call Center Services
Hardware and Software Support FY20
Digital Drive Replacements for Elevators (3)
Blanket PO for Admissions Printing and Mailing Services
Adobe License Agreement Renewal
Blanket PO for Transcriber Services
Blanket PO for Interpreting Services
Blanket PO for FBI Fingerprinting and Background Checks
IUC Membership Dues FY20
WebEx Renewal
Blanket PO for Pest Control Services
Blanket PO for Bulk Road Salt
Blanket PO for Job Advertising Services
Financial Reporting and Other Services for FY20
Blanket PO for Chiller Repair
Blanket PO for METRO Regional Authority
Blanket PO for Dining Services Refrigeration Equipment Repair Services
Blanket PO for Equipment and Events
Blanket PO for Paper Stock and Printing Supplies
Blanket PO for Dining Services Heating Equipment Repair Services
Hosting and Maintenance Services for ARCHTICS April 2019 through May 2019
Football Team Travel Charter Bus Service
Blanket PO for Dining Services Refrigeration/Cooler Services
Blanket PO for EJ Thomas PAH Advertising Services
Nikon Microscope and Accessories for Chemistry
Kaulig/UA TV Spotlight Campaign July 1, 2019 through December 31, 2019
Kaulig/UA TV Spotlight Campaign April 1, 2019 through June 30, 2019

Note 1: As prescribed by Board Rule, this Report reflects all goods and services exceeding $25,000 and $50,000, respectively.
1

 The University of Akron
Purchases Between $25,000 and $500,000
August 2019
Informational Report
FUND
General

VENDOR NAME

P.O. No.
or Pcard

EAB Global Inc.
D2L Ltd.
Ohio State University
Carl Zeiss Microscopy LLC
LaMar Companies
Oracle America Inc.

99391
99359
99385
99261
99341
99428

Auxiliary

Bob McCloskey Agency LLC
PTS Automotive LLC
Oracle America Inc.
US Bank Equipment Finance
LaMar Companies
Akron Civic Theatre
OES Inc.
Aetna Integrated Services

99314
B2080944
99428
B2083788
99341
B2093948
99275
B2095336

Grant
Plant

Mettler Toledo AutoChem Inc.
Hummel Construction Company
APG Office Furnishings

99260
98413
99245

Subtotal

Subtotal

AMOUNT
$

$
$

$
$
$

Subtotal $
Total $

380,597
275,400
190,368
67,057
60,183
60,000
1,033,605
180,076
150,000
140,000
106,000
60,183
56,659
50,962
50,000
793,880
75,500
96,248
34,484
130,732
2,033,717

COMMENTS
Student Marketing Programs for 2019-2020
D2L Learning Annual Fees and End User Support for 2019-2020
OARnet Fees and Internet Access for FY20
Petrographic Microscopes (6)
Blanket PO for Digital Billboards
Peoplesoft Upgrade Lab Consulting Service
Basic Athletic Insurance Renewal for 2019-2020
Blanket PO for Maintenance for ROO Buses & Other Vehicles
Peoplesoft Upgrade Lab Consulting Services
Bizhub Press Printing and Overage Charges
Blanket PO for Digital Billboards
Consulting Services for External Programming
Parts for InfoCision Stadium Scoreboard
EJ Thomas Custodial Services
Polymer Science Infrared Spectrometer
Carriage House Structural Repairs Labor and Materials
CBA Corbin Financial Lab Furniture

Note 1: As prescribed by Board Rule, this Report reflects all goods and services exceeding $25,000 and $50,000, respectively.
Note 2: The PO for LaMar Companies, PO 99341 totaled $120,366 with portions charged to the General Fund and Auxiliary Fund in the amounts of $60,183 and $60,183, respectively.
Note 3: The PO for Oracle America Inc., PO 99428 totaled $200,000 with portions charged to the General Fund and Auxiliary Fund in the amounts of $60,000 and $140,000, respectively.

2

 FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE
TAB 10

INFORMATIONAL PURCHASE REPORTS
b) UNIVERSITY P-CARDS

THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING

October 9, 2019

 DATE:

September 23, 2019

TO:

Nathan J. Mortimer, CPA
Vice President for Finance & Administration/CFO

FROM:

Luba Cramer
Director of Purchasing

SUBJECT:

Board Informational Report: University Issued Credit Card (P-Card)

As requested of me, I provide to you the following informational report for you to share with the
Board of Trustees at its meeting on October 9, 2019.
P-Card Program
The below summary is a follow-up to the informational report that was presented at the Board of
Trustees meeting on June 12, 2019.
As you know, The University of Akron (University), as part of the IUC-PG, awarded the P-Card
program to Bank of America Merrill Lynch (BAML). Effective July 1, the University
transitioned to BAML.
The Department of Purchasing’s (Department) goal is to balance the needs of the University and
users to the number of needed P-Cards and to ensure the P-Card program is utilized responsibly
in accord with University policies. The following table reflects the change in University issued
P-Cards:

Type of
P-Card
Individual
Department

Previously
Outstanding
JPMChase
1,350
0

Currently
Outstanding
BAML
785
143

Goal
650
170

The Department will continue to monitor the usage of cards and recommend cancellation of
seldom used cards and will continue to increase the implementation of departmental cards as it
makes business sense which will reduce the overall number of individual P-Cards.
In addition, the Department will begin, once again, to randomly audit transactions and cards for
compliance. These activities will be in addition to system notifications and reminders issued by
Card Integrity which is the software used to monitor credit card activity.

 FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE
TAB 11

CAPITAL PROJECTS REPORT

THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING

October 9, 2019

 INTEROFFICE CORRESPONDENCE
Capital Planning and Facilities Management
EXT - 8316
FAX - 5838
TO:

Nathan J. Mortimer, CPA
Vice President of Finance and Administration/CFO

FROM:

Misty M. Villers, CPA
Assistant to the VP/Fiscal Officer, CPFM

DATE:

September 6, 2019

SUBJECT:

Capital Planning and Facilities Management: Informational Report for the Board
of Trustees as of August 31, 2019.

Accompanying please find the following sections for the Capital Planning & Facilities
Management report:
A. Status of Projects $100,000 or larger
B. Change Orders
C. Photos of Select Projects
Project Deliver Methods:
•

General Contracting (GC) – A design-bid-build process in which the owner selects an
Architect/Engineer (A/E) to fully document the project criteria and design prior to
bidding. The lowest responsive and responsible GC (single prime) is awarded the
contract. The owner holds a single contract with the GC.

•

Multiple Prime Contracting – A design-bid-build process in which the owner selects an
A/E to fully document the project criteria and design prior to bidding. Multiple packages
are separately bid and awarded to the lowest responsive and responsible prime
contractors. The owner holds all prime contracts and is responsible for coordination
during construction.

•

Design/Build (DB) – A single entity is hired through a best value selection process to
deliver a complete project. The owner’s criteria and design intent is documented by a
separate criteria architect. The design is completed by the DB entity and a guaranteed
maximum price is provided to the owner prior to bidding. The DB entity bids to
prequalified subcontractors and holds all subcontracts for construction.

•

Construction Manager at Risk (CMR) – A contractor is hired through a best value
selection process during the design phase. The owner’s criteria and full design is
documented by a separate A/E. CMR provides a guaranteed maximum price to the owner
prior to bidding. The CMR bids to prequalified subcontractors and holds all subcontracts
for construction.

 SECTION
A

Status of Projects
$100,000 or larger

THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
CAPITAL PLANNING AND FACILITIES MANAGEMENT
STATUS OF PROJECTS $100,000 OR LARGER
AS OF AUGUST 31, 2019

PROJECT NAME

ASEC Advisor Suite
(General Contracting)

ASEC Vivarium Air
Handler Replacement
(Design/Build)

Baseball Field
Renovation
(General Contracting)

Field House Turf
Replacement
(General Contracting)
(BOT Approval:
06/12/19)

Buckingham Building
Renovation
(General Contracting)

Carriage House
Structural and Roof
Replacement
(General Contracting)

CBA Addition
(CMR)
(BOT Approval:
04/18/18)

Crouse/Ayer Hall
Consolidation
(CMR)
(BOT Approval:
04/10/19)

PROJECT
FUNDING

IMAGE

DESCRIPTION

SECTION A

STATUS

Construct five advisor offices and
reception area. Renovate conference
room.
Construction schedule: 12/2018 09/2019.

Construction 90% complete.

$1,200,000
State Capital Funds

Replace vivarium air handler.
Construction schedule: TBD

Request For Qualifications
received 08/2019. Short-list will
be developed soon.

$1,400,000
Donations
Donations include a
firm pledge in the
amount of $400,000
plus $300,000 that
will be secured by
Athletics

Sitework including drainage and
installation of artifical turf.
Construction schedule: 08/2019 12/2019.

Construction 1% complete.

$1,600,000
State Capital Funds

Upgrade HVAC system and fire alarm.
Select interior renovations to include
relocation of Academic Achievement
Programs from Ayer Hall.
Construction schedule: 01/2020 07/2020.

Design in progress.

$165,000
Donations

Repair structural beams, columns, floor
joist, concrete slabs, exterior walls and
replace roof.
Construction schedule: 05/2019 11/2019.

Structural repairs complete.
Roof begins 09/2019.

12,000 sf addition with classrooms,
offices and learning commons and 2,300
sf renovations in existing CBA building.
Construction schedule: 07/2018 09/2019.

Construction 95% complete.

Rehabilitate/addition to Crouse Hall.
Abate and raze Ayer Hall. Green space
portion of existing Ayer Hall footprint.
Construction schedule: 08/2020 07/2022.

Design in progress.
CMR contract in progress.

$365,000 Donations
168,000 Local
$533,000 Total

$400,000
The University of
Akron Foundation

$4,551,000 Donations
900,000 Local
$5,451,000 Total
Donations include
firm pledges in the
amount of $87,000

$23,000,000
State Capital Funds

1

 THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
CAPITAL PLANNING AND FACILITIES MANAGEMENT
STATUS OF PROJECTS $100,000 OR LARGER
AS OF AUGUST 31, 2019

PROJECT NAME

PROJECT
FUNDING

IMAGE

DESCRIPTION

Replace lobby lighting with LED and
install accent theatrical lighting.
Construction schedule: 09/2019 10/2019.

SECTION A

STATUS

EJ Thomas Lighting
Upgrades
(General Contracting)

$215,000
Local Funds

Elevator Upgrades
(General Contracting)
(BOT Approval:
12/05/18)

$1,500,000
State Capital Funds

Upgrade four elevators in Bierce
Library, Kolbe Hall, and Auburn
Science Engineering Center.
Construction schedule: 05/2019 01/2020.

Energy Center Boiler
Controls
(General Contracting)

$320,000
Local Funds

Replace HTHW boiler controls at
Energy Center.
Construction schedule: TBD

Specifications review in progress.

Abate and raze structure. Site restoration
to create green space.
Construction schedule: 03/2019 05/2020.

Abatement and razing complete.
Foundations and pier removal
begins 09/2019.
Greenspace to begin 04/2020.

Closeout in progress.

Gallucci Residence Hall
Abatement, Razing, and
Green Space
(Multiple Prime
Contracting)
(BOT Approval for
abatement 02/13/19 &
razing 04/10/19)

$2,000,000 State
270,000 Local
$2,270,000 Total
($2M State Capital
Funds)

Construction begins 09/2019.

Kolbe Hall complete.
Bierce Library 40% complete.
ASEC 1% complete.

General Lab
Renovations
(Design/Build)
(BOT Approval:
04/13/16 Phase I &
02/14/18 Phase II)

$4,000,000
State Capital Funds

Cosmetic repair / upgrades of teaching
and laboratory casework and finishes.
Phase I: Knight Chemical Laboratory.
Phase II: Goodyear Polymer building,
Olson Research Center, and Auburn
Science and Engineering Center.

Infrastructure
Improvements Electrical
(General Contracting)

$1,400,000
State Capital Funds

Campus electrical improvements.
Construction schedule: 11/2019 10/2020.

Bids due 09/2019.

Infrastructure
Improvements - Vaults
(General Contracting)
(BOT Approval:
08/14/19)

$1,400,000
State Capital Funds

Replace Martin Fountain vault and
rework Computer Center vault.
Construction schedule: 10/2019 08/2020.

Construction begins 10/2019.

Renovate third and forth floors of
Roadway building including building
boilers.

Closeout in progress.

Institute for Human
Science & Culture
(CMR)
(BOT Approval:
02/14/18)

$5,000,000 Donations
200,000 State
$5,200,000 Total
($200K State Capital
Funds)
Donations include
firm pledges in the
amount of $258,000

2

 THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
CAPITAL PLANNING AND FACILITIES MANAGEMENT
STATUS OF PROJECTS $100,000 OR LARGER
AS OF AUGUST 31, 2019

PROJECT NAME

PROJECT
FUNDING

IMAGE

DESCRIPTION

SECTION A

STATUS

$6,564,000
State Capital Funds

Phase I: network edge access equipment
and two-way radio system from analog
to digital.
Phase II: Upgrade cabling/wiring
network connectivity in numerous
buildings.
Schedule Phase II: 09/2019 - 06/2020.

Phase II construction begins
09/2019.

Kolbe Hall Chiller
Replacement
(General Contracting)

$350,000
State Capital Funds

Replace roof top chiller.
Construction schedule: 11/2019 04/2020.

Design in progress.

Martin Center Boutique
Hotel
(Private Developer)

$14,000,000
Estimate
Private Developer

Convert Martin Center into a Boutique
Hotel.
Construction schedule: 10/2019 03/2021.

Developer design in progress.
Historical tax credits approved.

$434,000 State
Medina Lab Renovation
413,000 Local
(General Contracting)
$847,000 Total
(BOT Approval:
($434K State Capital
08/14/19)
Funds)

Renovate existing surgical technology
lab to support biology, chemistry, and
human anatomy/physiology.
Construction schedule: 08/2019 01/2020.

Construction is 1% complete.

Polsky Building
Industrial Control
Systems Test Bed
(General Contracting)

$310,000
Donations

Renovate Polsky 466 for the Musson
Industrial Control Systems Test Bed
program.

Roadway Building Air
Handler Replacement
(General Contracting)

$200,000
Local Funds

Replace (3) air handler units serving the
basement and first floor of Roadway
Building.
Construction schedule: TBD

Design in progress.

Roof Replacements
(General Contracting)
(BOT Approval:
02/13/19)

$1,100,000
State Capital Funds

Roof replacements/repairs to Carroll and
Forge Street substations, Guzzetta Hall,
Mary Gladwin Hall, and Computer
Center.
Construction schedule: 05/2019 10/2019.

Forge Street 95% complete.
Carroll Street 90% complete.
Mary Gladwin Hall 80%
complete.
Guzzetta Hall 45% complete.
Computer Center 0% complete.

Sand Filtering System
(General Contracting)

$120,000
Local Funds

Install (2) closed loop pump & filter
packages for chilled water storage tank.
Construction schedule: 09/2019 10/2019.

Equipment received.
Installation 09/2019.

IT Cabling and Network
Switches
(Design/Build)
(BOT Approval:
06/12/17 & 02/13/19)

3

Closeout in progress.

 THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
CAPITAL PLANNING AND FACILITIES MANAGEMENT
STATUS OF PROJECTS $100,000 OR LARGER
AS OF AUGUST 31, 2019

PROJECT NAME

PROJECT
FUNDING

Sumner Street Bridge
Replacement
(General Contracting)
(BOT Approval:
04/10/19)

$1,400,000
State Capital Funds

West Campus Parking
Deck Repairs
(General Contracting)
(BOT Approval:
06/12/19)

$1,600,000
Local Funds

Whitby Hall Air
Handler and Roof
Replacement
(Design/Build)
(BOT Approval:
02/13/19)

$1,200,000
State Capital Funds

IMAGE

DESCRIPTION

SECTION A

STATUS

Replace Sumner Street Bridge.
Construction schedule: 05/2019 10/2019.

Construction 65% complete.

Repairs to the West Campus Parking
Deck.
Construction schedule: 07/2019 12/2019.

Construction 40% complete.

Replace air handler and roof.
Construction schedule: 10/2019 04/2020.

GMP for construction in progress.

4

 SECTION


Change Orders

SECTION B

CHANGE ORDERS PROCESSED FROM JULY 1, 2019 THROUGH AUGUST 31, 2019

CARRIAGE HOUSE STRUCTURAL REPAIRS
001-01

Joist repair and manlift rental

$1,800

CBA ADDITION
012-01
013-01
014-01
015-01
016-01
017-01
018-01
019-01
020-01

Storefront flashing changes
Add (2) roller shades
Temporary propane gas for portable heaters until permanent gas line installed
New fire shaft wall door
Existing corridor and computer lab finishes
Add (2) data drops for room 180
Add custom window shade enclosures
Sawcut foundations not shown on drawings
Add AV equipment

$8,893
981
9,024
1,249
99,166
377
2,524
4,476
111,668
$238,357

ELEVATOR UPGRADES
002-01

Replace 480V breaker

$1,414

GALLUCCI RESIDENCE HALL ABATEMENT, RAZING AND GREEN SPACE
002-01

Modify contract times

$0

GENERAL LAB RENOVATION
003-01

Correct exhaust issues with new hood

$1,425

POLSKY BUILDING ICS TEST BED
001-01
002-01

Furnish/install data
Allowance credit

$9,309
(5,000)
$4,309

SUMNER STREET BRIDGE REPLACEMENT
003-01

Electric relocation and AC breaker box

$1,365

Net

5

$248,670

 SECTION


Photos of Select Projects

SECTION 

ASEC Adviser Suite

 

 

ir Handler Replacement

A

lunl

Ivar

ASEC 

 

 

SECTION 

Baseball Field Renovation

 

Buckingham Building Renovation

 

SECTION 

Carriage House Structural and Roof Repairs

 

CBA Addition

 

SECTION 

CBA Addition

 

ition

CBA Add

 

SECTION 

CBA Addition

 

Crouse/Aver Hall Consolidation

 

10

SECTION 

EJ Thomas Lighting Upgrades

 

 

 

11

SECTION 

Elevator Upgrades - Bierce

 

Elevator Upgrades - Kolbe



 

12

SECTION C
Elevator Upgrades – Auburn Science and Engineering Center

Gallucci Residence Hall Abatement, Razing, and Green Space

13

 SECTION C
Gallucci Residence Hall Abatement, Razing, and Green Space

Infrastructure Improvements - Electrical

14

 SECTION C
Infrastructure Improvements – Vault Martin Fountain

Infrastructure Improvements – Vault Computer Center

15

 SECTION C
Kolbe Hall Chiller Replacement

Polsky Building Industrial Control Systems Test Bed

16

 SECTION C
Roadway Building Air Handler Replacement

Roof Replacement Carroll Street Substation

17

 SECTION C
Roof Replacement Forge Street Substation

Roof Replacement Guzzetta Hall – Lower Level

18

 SECTION 

Roof Replacement Marv Gladwin Hall

 

Sumner Street Bridge Replacement

 

SECTION 
West Campus Parking Deck Repairs

Ir

 

West Campus Parking Deck Repairs



    




?Ir-um 'mlm'
mu 
I .-

 

20

SECTION 
Whitbv Hall Air Handler and Roof Replacement

FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE
TAB 12

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY REPORT

THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING

October 9, 2019

 DATE:

September 11, 2019

TO:

Nathan J. Mortimer, CPA
Vice President for Finance & Administration/CFO

FROM:

John Corby
Chief Information Officer

SUBJECT:

ITS Informational Report for the Board of Trustees

As requested of me, I provide the accompanying report of the IT Projects and Activities for the
Board of Trustees information at its October 9, 2019 meeting. The accompanying report
includes:
•
•
•
•

Update on Projects and Activities
Completed Projects and Activities
Planned Projects and Activities
Tabled Projects and Activities

 Information Technology Services
Informational Report for the Board of Trustees
October 9, 2019
Prepared effective August 31, 2019

 Information Technology Services

TABLE OF CONTENTS
UPDATE ON PROJECTS AND ACTIVITIES ..................................................................................1
Wired Network Upgrade ..................................................................................................... 1
Campus Cable Upgrade ....................................................................................................... 1
Business Intelligence and Analytics Initiatives .................................................................... 2
Curriculum Management and Catalog Implementation ..................................................... 3
IT Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Implementation ......................................... 3
Service Desk Enhancements .............................................................................................. 4
Ohio Cyber Range Implementation ................................................................................... 4
Internet Border Bandwidth and Security Improvements ................................................... 4
Advising Notes Migration.................................................................................................... 5
Managed Voice over IP (VoIP) Service Migration ............................................................... 5
Two Factor Authentication Implementation ...................................................................... 6
COMPLETED PROJECTS AND ACTIVITIES ..................................................................................7
Computer Refresh for Full-Time Contract Professionals, Staff and Remaining Faculty ..... 7
Legacy Regional Network Migration to Commodity Internet............................................. 7
PLANNED PROJECTS AND ACTIVITIES ......................................................................................8
Cloud-Based Security Information and Event Management System Implementation....... 8
Security Access Directory Consolidation............................................................................. 8
Computer Refresh for Eligible Full-Time Contract Professionals, Staff and Faculty ........... 9
Cloud Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System Migration ............................................ 9
TABLED PROJECTS AND ACTIVITIES ...................................................................................... 10
None ................................................................................................................................. 10

 UPDATE ON PROJECTS AND ACTIVITIES

Wired Network Upgrade

Start date: September 2016
Funding: $1,650,000 General Fund; $1,300,000 State Capital
Funds
Description: Redesign and replace campus wired network to
increase performance, reliability, and support of new
technologies.
Milestones:
•
•
•

Phase 1 (Sept 2016 – Dec 2017 updated to Feb 2018)
Install new campus core network alongside existing
network. (Completed)
Phase 2 (Jan 2018 – Dec 2018 updated to Sept 2018)
Install new wired end user access network.
(Completed)
Phase 3 (Jan 2018 – May 2019 updated to Oct 2018 –
Dec 2019) Migrate, cleanup, and cutover; remove
legacy equipment.

Targeted completion: May 2019 updated to December 2019

Campus Cable Upgrade

Start date: August 2017
Funding: $4,800,000 State Capital Funds
Description: Upgrade cabling to modern specifications. Install
additional cabling to support the campus network needs.
Milestones:
•

•
•
•

•

Phase 1 (Aug 2017 – Sept 2017 updated to Dec 2017)
Selection of Criteria Project Engineer; planning and
estimation of upgrade efforts. (Completed)
Phase 2 (Dec 2017 – Sept 2018) Criteria Documents
Production. (Completed)
Phase 3 (Oct 2018 – Jan 2019) Design Builder (DB)
Selection. (Completed)
Phase 4 (Feb 2019 – May 2019 updated to July 2019)
DB preconstruction services, GMP negotiations.
(Completed)
Phase 5 (June 2019 – Feb 2020 updated to Aug 2019 –
April 2020) Construction.

Targeted completion: February 2020 updated to April 2020

1

 Business Intelligence and
Analytics Initiatives

Start date: August 2017
Funding: $190,000 General Fund
Description: Migrate and enhance business intelligence and
analytics solutions to facilitate the University’s growing needs.
One initiative is to migrate the existing “Zipreports”
developed on Hyperion Analytics, which is at end of life, to
Oracle Analytics. The second initiative will help establish the
use of predictive analytics related to student success using
Oracle analytics technology.
Milestones:
•

Zipreports Migration (Aug 2017 – June 2019 updated
to Dec 2019)
− Setup environment, define scope and timeline.
(Completed)
− Train core team and deploy. (Completed)
− Rewrite core Zipreports (QuickReports).
(Completed)
− Train department data owners.
− Shutter Hyperion Analytics.

Targeted completion (Zipreports): June 2019 updated to
December 2019
•

Student Insights Program (July 2018 – Dec 2018
updated to Sept 2019)
− Define objectives and measures. (Completed)
− Build student risk and early alert models
integrating with UA data sources. (Completed)
− Train, implement, and provide access to users.

Targeted completion (Student Insights): December 2018
updated to September 2019

2

 Curriculum Management and
Catalog Implementation

Start Date: May 2018
Funding: $359,000 General Fund
Description: Implement a curriculum management and
academic catalog system to support program and curriculum
design and development to create more responsive learning
opportunities for students.
Milestones:
•

•

•

Phase 1 - Academic Catalog (May 2018 – Aug 2018)
− Initial setup of academic catalog for fall 2018.
(Completed)
Phase 2 – Academic Catalog (Aug 2018 – June 2019)
− Enhanced setup of academic catalog.
(Completed)
Curriculum Management (Aug 2018 – June 2019
updated to Sept 2019)
− Setup curriculum proposal system.
− Archive proposals from legacy system.
− Decommission legacy proposal system.

Targeted Completion: June 2019 updated to September 2019

IT Business Continuity and
Disaster Recovery
Implementation

Start date: August 2018
Funding: $48,000 General Fund
Description: Identify and prioritize key business systems and
recovery time objectives. Evaluate options for providing
disaster recovery and business continuity.
Milestones:
•

•
•

Phase 1 (Aug 2018 – April 2019) – Work with campus
administration and stakeholders to identify key
priorities for disaster recovery and business continuity.
(Completed)
Phase 2 (Aug 2018 – April 2019 updated to Aug 2019)
– Evaluate and implement required colocation facility
and/or cloud infrastructure services. (Completed)
Phase 3 (May 2019 updated to Aug 2019 – Dec 2019) –
Conduct ongoing test and refinement of disaster
recovery preparedness.

Targeted completion: December 2019

3

 Service Desk Enhancements

Start date: January 2019
Funding: $7,500 General Funds
Description: Effort consists of two initiatives which will
enhance the end user experience related to the ITS Service
Desk. The first initiative is to upgrade the existing Footprints
ticket management system allowing for self-service capability.
The second initiative will leverage “chat bot” technology
provided through existing Microsoft Azure licensing to
automate answers to user questions.
Milestones
•
•

Footprints Ticket Management Upgrade. (Jan 2019 –
Jan 2020)
ChatBot development and deployment. (July 2019 to
Nov 2019)

Targeted completion: January 2020

Ohio Cyber Range
Implementation

Start date: February 2019
Funding: $1,180,000 State Funds
Description: Provide standup and integration support to the
Ohio Cyber Range. Assist with procurement and installation of
hardware and provide connectivity and configuration support
for the new environment.
Milestones
•
•

Hardware delivery and installation. (July 2019 to Aug
2019) (Completed)
Software installation and configuration. (Aug 2019 to
Oct 2019)

Targeted completion: October 2019

Internet Border Bandwidth and
Security Improvements

Start date: March 2019
Funding: $150,000 General Fund
Description: Increase border bandwidth capability to
100Gbps, build out backup fiber circuit, implement new
border firewalls, and provision OARnet’s DoS service. These
improvements will position the University to fully support the
Ohio Cyber Range, as well as other services requiring high
speed internet connectivity.
Targeted completion: October 2019

Advising Notes Migration

Start date: May 2019

4

 Funding: None
Description: Migrate the GradesFirst application to Oracle
technology including PeopleSoft Campus Solutions Advising
along with Oracle Analytics. Migration will allow for the
elimination of licensing for GradesFirst providing an annual
savings approximating $90,000.
Milestones:
•
•
•
•

Setup functionality within PeopleSoft Advising and
Oracle Analytics.
Transfer existing data from GradesFirst into
PeopleSoft.
Begin using new functionality in PeopleSoft and
Oracle Analytics.
Discontinue use of GradesFirst.

Targeted completion: October 2019

Managed Voice over IP (VoIP)
Service Migration

Start date: June 2019
Funding: To be determined
Description: Migrate from legacy on-premise Public Branch
Exchange (PBX) to a cloud hosted and managed VoIP service.
This migration will improve the quality of service for
telephone calls and voicemail, as well as control or even
reduce costs.
Milestones:
•

•

Phase 1 (June 2019 – Oct 2019 ) Release RFP, select
vendor and define implementation strategy and
timeline.
Phase 2 (Oct 2019 – Dec 2020) Implementation.

Targeted completion: December 2020

5

 Two Factor Authentication
Implementation

Start date: July 2019
Funding: $47,000 General Fund
Description: Provide capability for two factor authentication
for faculty and staff with access to privileged PeopleSoft
functions. This will provide an additional layer of protection to
prevent account compromises.
Milestones
•
•
•

Implement and pilot with IT staff. (July 2019 – Oct
2019)
Rollout to employees within certain functional areas.
(Nov 2019 – Jan 2020)
Rollout to remaining employees within remaining
functional areas. (Feb 2020 – May 2020)

Targeted completion: May 2020

6

 COMPLETED PROJECTS AND ACTIVITIES

Computer Refresh for Full-Time
Contract Professionals, Staff, and
Remaining Faculty

Start date: March 2019
Funding: $600,000 General Fund
Description: Replaced 460 employee desk and laptop computers for
full-time contract professionals, staff, and some remaining faculty
members. Desktop and laptop computers purchased more than five
(5) years ago were replaced with new equipment. The new equipment
provides users with more current technology, capabilities, and will
feature stronger security standards.
Completed: August 2019

Legacy Regional Network
Migration to Commodity Internet

Start date: May 2019
Funding: None
Description: Migrated legacy regional wide area network connectivity
from proprietary, fee-based, technologies to standard connection
technologies. This migration improves reliability of services and
provides annual savings approximating $140,000.
Completed: August 2019

7

 PLANNED PROJECTS AND ACTIVITIES

Cloud-Based Security Information
and Event Management System
(SIEM) Implementation

Anticipated start date: October 2019
Funding: To be determined
Description: Deployment of Microsoft Azure Sentinel for
security event logging and analysis which will help to
prevent security breaches and reduce the impact of
security events.
Milestones
•
•
•
•

Pilot deployment for limited services. (Oct 2019 –
Jan 2020)
Configure and log relevant applications and
services. (Feb 2020 – June 2020)
Develop alerts and workflows. (July 2020 – Aug
2020)
Automate alerts and workflows. (Sept 2020 – Dec
2020)

Anticipated completion: December 2020

Security Access Directory
Consolidation

Anticipated start date: October 2019
Funding: None
Description: Consolidate several customized identity and
authentication services to a single service through existing
licensing with Microsoft Azure Directory Services. This
consolidation will provide greater agility, efficiency, and
management of security access for constituents requiring
access to systems and services.
Milestones
•
•
•

Identify and map existing services. (Oct 2019 – Dec
2019)
Add new authentication and federation services to
aid migration. (Jan 2020 – Mar 2020)
Migrate from legacy authentication provider to
new infrastructure. (Apr 2020 - Aug 2020)

Anticipated completion: August 2020

8

 Computer Refresh for Eligible FullTime Contract Professionals, Staff,
and Faculty

Anticipated start date: November 2019
Funding: $100,000 General Fund
Description: A reoccurring initiative to replace aged
employee desk and laptop computers for eligible full-time
employees. Primary desktop and laptop computers
purchased more than four (4) years ago will be replaced
with new equipment. The new equipment will provide
more current technology, capabilities, and will feature
stronger security standards.
Anticipated completion: May 2020

Cloud Enterprise Resource Planning
(ERP) System Migration

Anticipated start date: To be determined
Funding: To be determined
Description: Investigate migration from the OraclePeopleSoft and supporting third-party systems to a cloudbased enterprise resource planning (ERP) system to better
manage and automate the University’s financial, human
resource, and student administration functions, provide an
improved user experience for employees, students, faculty,
and other users with enhanced security features and
capabilities.
Targeted completion: To be determined

9

  

TABLED PROJECTS ACTIVITIES

 

 

None

 

10

FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE
TAB 13

ADVANCEMENT REPORT

THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING

October 9, 2019

 Report to the Board of Trustees
October 2019

GIFTS
CLINE FAMILY HELPS STUDENT-ATHLETES
BY CREATING LEADERSHIP ACADEMY
Through a generous gift commitment, alumni Keith A. Cline, Jr. ‘92, ‘02, and Stephanie L. Cline
‘94 recently created the “Keith A. Jr. and Stephanie L. Cline Athletics Leadership Academy.”
The academy will provide coaches and staff the tools to make a difference in the lives and
careers of University of Akron student-athletes. It will offer them year-round opportunities for
advancement in five key areas: leadership training, career development, community
engagement, personal enrichment and letter winner engagement.
As part of the Leadership Academy, the Varsity “A,” the University’s letter winners’ association,
will be integrated into the academy. Members will be asked to mentor the University’s more
than 500 student-athletes. The Department of Athletics also will be partnering with academic
departments across campus to provide experiential learning and leadership development
opportunities for student-athletes through the academy.
Keith is president & CEO of CorePoint Lodging Inc., which owns a portfolio of 310 hotels
throughout the United States. He earned two UA degrees; a B.S. in accounting in 1992 and an
MBA in 2002.
Stephanie earned a B.S. in social work from UA in 1994. She volunteers for several charitable
organizations that focus on military veterans, spouses and caregivers, the abolishment of
human trafficking and current social and political issues.
The Clines reside in Southlake, Texas, with their children, Evan, Brandon, Logan, and Lauren.

Page 1

 MERCURY PLASTICS FUNDS THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING’S
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION EFFORTS
The College of Engineering recently received a generous donation from Mercury Plastics,
a Middlefield, Ohio-based company that provides custom thermoplastic products to the
appliance, automotive, construction and plumbing markets.
Their donation supports the college’s diversity and inclusion programs and funds the
Mercury Plastics Scholarship, an award given to a student member of the Increasing
Diversity in Engineering Academics (IDEAs) Program or Women in Engineering Program.
This is Mercury’s first gift to The University of Akron and The College of Engineering.
“We value a diverse and inclusive workforce and believe it is critical to see more
representation in the engineering profession,” says Jay Burnett, president of Mercury
Plastics. “We look forward to playing a role in the success of the exceptional engineering
talent at The University of Akron.”

From left to right:
Shawnn Foster, engineering student; Suzanne LaRocca, Director of Human Resources,
Mercury Plastics; Dr. Craig Menzemer, Interim Dean of the College of Engineering;
Heidi Cressman, Director of the Diversity and Inclusion Program, UA College of Engineering;
Kim Cole, UA Vice President of Advancement; Ben Sabat, mechanical engineering technology
student; Jay Burnett, President of Mercury Plastics.

Page 2

 SCHOLARSHIP IN HONOR OF FATHER
HELPS FISHER INSTITUTE
Mr. Stephen C. Reymann fully endowed The Clement L. Reymann Scholarship for the Fisher
Institute for Professional Selling with a recent gift. As a CBA graduate, Steve continuously and
generously supports the University’s CBA and athletics programs.
This scholarship was created in memory and honor of Steve’s father, Clement L. Reymann.
Mr. Reymann was a highly decorated U.S. Navy aviator, who in service to his country during
World War II, was awarded the Navy Cross, Distinguished Flying Cross, and Air Medal with two
gold stars. This scholarship provides financial assistance to junior or senior students pursuing
professional sales careers, the career path Mr. Reymann pursued after his time in active combat.

NEW EMERGENCY FUND FOR STUDENTS
The Alan and Janice Woll Endowment for Zips in Need
was established in 2019 to support UA students facing
emergency financial circumstances. Alan and Janice
established this fund to help students overcome obstacles
as they work toward degree completion. Funds from the
Endowment are split between The Alan and Janice Woll
Fund for Retention Scholarship and The Alan and Janice
Woll Fund for ZipAssist.
Alan and Janice are both UA alumni. Alan earned a
Bachelor of Arts in Political Science in 1969, during which
Janice and Alan Woll
time he played two-years on the Zips Football team. In 1971,
Janice earned a Master’s Degree in Education, specializing in reading and counseling.

SUPPORT FROM THE SCHAEFFLER GROUP BENEFITS
ENGINEERING CAR DESIGN TEAMS
The Schaeffler Group recently provided support for The University of Akron College of
Engineering to help the Formula Combustion team, Formula Electric team, Rocket team,
Aero team, Baja team, Human Powered Vehicle team, and the Robotics team.
Schaeffler delivers high-precision components and systems in engine, transmission, and chassis
applications, as well as rolling and plain bearing solutions for a large number of industrial
situations.

NEW LIGHTING AT E.J. THOMAS HALL
Lights are shining brighter at E.J. Thomas Performing
Arts Hall, thanks to a recent gift from The Edwin J.
Thomas Foundation.
The Foundation’s gift was used for an improvement
project to replace the existing 1970s lobby lighting
with longer life, high efficiency LED fixtures.

Page 3

 THE FRED A. LENNON CHARITABLE TRUST
FUNDS “SWAGELOK SCHOLARS”
The Fred A. Lennon Charitable Trust is completing a five-year commitment to fund
“Swagelok Scholars”— mechanical engineering scholarships — and renovations in the
Swagelok Career Center in the Auburn Science and Engineering Center. Top academic
students are eligible for two years of scholarship, which comes with an invitation to meet
with senior Swagelok management and to interview for co-op placement.
On Sept. 13th, Swagelok Scholars enjoyed a campus lunch with the Swagelok leadership
team. Swagelok executives expressed how impressed they continue to be with UA’s
engineering students.

Dr. Craig Menzemer, Interim Dean of the College
of Engineering, with Joel Feldman, VP of Swagelok
Engineering.

Swagelok Scholars: Vema Wamba,
Jack Svonovec and Schuyler Spivey.

Ward Dumm, VP of Swagelok Operations (second from right)
with Swagelok Scholars Nadine Salem, Amari Gambrell, Kareemat Melaiye
and Lillian Gonzalez.

Page 4

 ENGINEERING STUDENTS
BENEFIT FROM
THE LEHNER FAMILY FOUNDATION
The Lehner Family Foundation recently established an endowed engineering scholarship
in memory of Otto, Marie, Charles and Jane Lehner. It recognizes their dedication to
supporting the local community. This scholarship will be awarded to a student pursing an
engineering degree at The University of Akron.

DR. KENNETH DOBBINS
ENDOWS SCHOLARSHIP
IN MEMORY OF HIS WIFE
On the one year anniversary of his wife’s passing, Dr. Kenneth Dobbins fully endowed
The Mrs. Jeanine Larson-Dobbins Endowed Scholarship. Dr. Dobbins also made a gift in
order to award the scholarship immediately. This scholarship honors and continues Jeanine’s
legacy and passion for education.
Ken and Jeanine were married for almost 47 years, leading and educating wherever they
went. The Mrs. Jeanine Larson-Dobbins Endowed Scholarship is available to members of
The Eta Chapter of Delta Gamma, of which Jeanine was a member and resided in the house
on the UA campus. First consideration will be given to students enrolled in The LeBron
James Family Foundation College of Education followed by students enrolled in the College
of Business Administration.

THE EVANS FOUNDATION
CREATES SCHOLARSHIP
FOR BUSINESS STUDENTS
The Evans Foundation generously contributes each year to support The Evans Foundation
Scholarships. The Evans family has a long, successful history in the city of Akron, with several
generations attending The University of Akron. Their scholarships support financially needy,
full-time students who have demonstrated high scholastic ability, good citizenship, promise,
and leadership abilities. Preference is given to students enrolled in the College of Business
Administration.

CAMEOS OF CARING
RECEIVES SUPPORT
FROM AREA HOSPITALS
Cleveland Clinic Akron General and Summa Health System recently provided
support and co-presenting sponsorship of the 18th Annual Cameos of Caring Gala.
This annual event recognizes nurses for their contribution to health care in Summit County
and the surrounding region and raises financial support for nursing scholarships at UA.

Page 5

 AKRON PRIDE
On August 22nd, The Alumni Association sponsored a tent for the first time at this year’s
PrideFest during Akron Pride. To show support for all of our LGBTQ+ alumni and friends,
rainbow Zippy cookies were handed out as well as rainbow “Forever a Zip” bumper
stickers. Current students, faculty, staff and community members stopped by throughout
the day to show gratitude toward the university’s presence at the event.

RESIDENCE HALL MOVE-IN DAYS
Move-in was a team effort this year as members of our Roo Crew assisted new freshman
officially joining the campus community.
With more than 15 alumni volunteers assisting with the Spicer Hall move-in, they were able
to get 243 people into the residence hall in eight hours! The alumni were thrilled to be
back at UA and enjoyed talking with families about their memories of living on campus.

Page 6

 UA LEGACY PROGRAM
IN IT’S THIRD YEAR
The UA Legacy program kicked off it’s third year this fall, by welcoming new freshman Legacy
students with an exclusive “UA Legacy” mug in their residence hall room. Additional
information about the organization was shared to the campus at RooFest.
This semester, Legacy students who have signed up to be a part of the program can
take part in various activities, including enjoying cider and snacks on campus the week of
October 6th in celebration of Homecoming. On Oct. 12th, they also can watch the Akron
vs. Eastern Michigan game from the club level, as well as enjoy holiday cookies and hot
chocolate during finals week.

A LOOK AHEAD TOWARDS
HOMECOMING AND FAMILY WEEKEND, OCTOBER 11-12
Homecoming and Family Weekend have combined efforts to make for one great weeklong
tradition at UA beginning October 6th.
From a comedy show for students at EJ Thomas Performing Arts Hall, to a campuswide
cookout, and pep rally, the homecoming spirit will be alive and well on campus. It will all
culminate into an exciting weekend for Akron families kicking off on Oct. 11th across campus,
including one big party at The Official Homecoming Tailgate on Oct. 12th, right before the
Zips take on archrival Kent State in Football. More information can be found at
www.uakron.edu/homecoming

Page 7

 FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE
TAB 14

UNIVERSITY COMMUNICATIONS AND
MARKETING REPORT

THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING

October 9, 2019

 REPORT TO THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES   October 2019

UNIVERSITY COMMUNICATIONS AND MARKETING
Student-submitted images
star in this year’s viewbook
This year’s viewbook was completely
redesigned from top to bottom with more
imagery and infographics than ever before.
We also incorporated student-submitted
images to give it a more genuine feel – which
is important to today’s high school students
because of social media. The viewbook
remains the flagship recruiting piece for
admissions representatives to distribute at
high school visits and more.

University Communications and Marketing

1

 UNIVERSITY COMMUNICATIONS AND MARKETING

Affordable
excellence
This newly designed piece
for Admissions touts the
“Affordable Excellence” of a
UA education.
It was sent to 2020 high
school graduating seniors,
both applicants and inquiries.
There are two versions, one
for in-state prospects and
one for prospects who live
outside Ohio.

Get your financial aid
UCM – and Zippy – are helping Financial Aid get
the word out about filling out the Free Application
for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) form through
on-campus posters and a handout card to be
distributed at Financial Aid/Admissions events.

2 University Communications and Marketing

 UNIVERSITY COMMUNICATIONS AND MARKETING

Why you should apply to UA
This piece is being mailed to 20,000 high
school seniors who will graduate this spring.
Messaging includes in-demand majors,

graduation placement rates, experiential
learning, a beautiful campus and a vibrant
campus life.

University Communications and Marketing

3

 UNIVERSITY COMMUNICATIONS AND MARKETING

The special community that is
the Williams Honors College
We produced a new brochure promoting the
Williams Honors College and its outstanding
opportunities in education abroad, undergraduate
research and leadership-skills development.

4 University Communications and Marketing

 UNIVERSITY COMMUNICATIONS AND MARKETING

Media relations: Telling our story
Promoted announcement of
20+ faculty hires in areas of
strategic investment. Story
ran in Crain’s Cleveland
Business, Cleveland.com and
on 1590-WAKR.
Celebrated Tuba Summer
and the works of Professor
Emeritus Tucker Jolly in an
article on coolcleveland.com
and in a special PBS feature
originating from KPBS,
San Diego that played on
networks across the country.
Worked with the Akron
Beacon Journal and
WEWS-TV on stories about
the Amazon Fulfillment
Center coming to the former
Rolling Acres Mall. Assistant
Professor Amanda Weinstein
in the College of Business
Administration served as a
resource.
Promoted Carnival with
a Cop, where UA Police
participated in outreach with
local youth. Coverage was
received in the Akron Beacon
Journal and WOIO-TV.
Secured interview in

We celebrated the naming of Gary Miller as our 18th president.
Akron Beacon Journal, Cleveland.com, Crain’s Cleveland Business,
WKYC-TV, 89.7 WKSU, 1590 WAKR, The Associated Press,
akron.com, 90.3 WCPN, The Westside Leader, the Record-Courier,
WGBA-TV in Green Bay, Wis., Green Bay Press Gazette and the
Sacramento Bee filed stories.

Cleveland Jewish News
about the Master of Business
Administration program
and the importance of
networking outside of the

classroom. Terry Daugherty,
assistant dean and director
of graduate programs in our
business school, served as an
expert.
Continues on next page.

University Communications and Marketing

5

 UNIVERSITY COMMUNICATIONS AND MARKETING

Continued from previous page.
Alerted local media to
the good works of our
engineering students
who designed and built
an adaptable canoe seat
that helps children with
special needs. The seat was
presented to Akron Rotary
Camp. Coverage appeared
on WEWS-TV, the West
Side Leader and the Akron
Beacon Journal.
Promoted the work of
the University of Akron
Research Foundation and the
I-Corps program to Crain’s
Cleveland Business. Elyse
Ball from UARF served as
spokesperson for the article.
Continues on next page.

We promoted research about military veteran pay that was
co-authored by Associate Professor Francesco Renna and
Assistant Professor Amanda Weinstein in the College of Business
Administration. Coverage was received from the Akron Beacon
Journal, WEWS-TV, militarytimes.com, WKSU and many online
military outlets.

We earned coverage on a study called “sharenting”
by Assistant Professor Alexa Fox in the College
of Business Administration. The study explored
the social media habits of new mothers and the
implications of sharing personal details about their
children online.
Results were widely publicized in Economic Times,
Forbes, more than 20 online outlets and on local
channel WOIO-TV, where her study was the feature
of the entire 60-minute news show and included
a Facebook poll to gauge viewer interest and
interaction.

6 University Communications and Marketing

 UNIVERSITY COMMUNICATIONS AND MARKETING

Continued from previous page.
Coordinated media coverage of the new four-year degree
offerings at Wayne College. The Daily Record and the
Bargain Hunter provided local coverage.
Arranged coverage of the $1.25
million gift to UA Athletics to
create a leadership academy for
student athletes. Coverage was
obtained in the Akron Beacon
Journal, 1590-WAKR and Crain’s
Cleveland Business.
Managed media interest in
the faculty poll on leadership
concerns. Inside Higher
Education, Crain’s Cleveland
Business. Cleveland.com and the
Akron Beacon Journal provided
coverage.
Celebrated the work of Assistant
Professor Henry Astley, who was
awarded a two-year EAGER
(Early Concept Grants for
Exploratory Research) grant
from the National Science
Foundation (NSF) with stories
in Crain’s Cleveland Business
and phys.org. Astley is in the
departments of biology and
polymer science.

We pitched and received coverage on the good works of
Zips for Haiti, a student group from the Office of Leadership
Advancement, and its fundraising efforts to pay for a student
from Haiti to attend UA. The Akron Beacon Journal ran the
story.

Promoted research by Associate
Professor Linda Barrett in the Department of Geosciences
and Professor Emeritus of Chemistry David Perry that was
used to develop technology to monitor agricultural pesticide
runoff in local waterways; the cause of harmful algae blooms
in Lake Erie. Coverage was received on WEWS-TV,
Cleveland.com and WOIO-TV.
University Communications and Marketing

7

 UNIVERSITY COMMUNICATIONS AND MARKETING

Making the case for Akron Law
We published a new Akron Law viewbook,
highlighting the law school’s most recent top-50
rankings in IP Law, trial advocacy and part-time
studies, among other accolades.

8 University Communications and Marketing

 UNIVERSITY COMMUNICATIONS AND MARKETING

Video highlights: Capturing student and faculty achievement
See these videos and more at www.youtube.com/uakron.

We introduced Dr. Gary and Georgia Miller
to the campus and community through a
series of videos.

We previewed the Anthony J. Alexander
Professional Development Center in our
College of Business Administration.

We visited with an engineering graduate who
works as the electrical and controls manager
at Great Lakes Brewing Co. in Cleveland.

We captured the energy of New Roo
Weekend, New Student Convocation and the
first week of classes.

Zippy helped us promote free admission for
our students to the Akron Art Museum.

University Communications and Marketing

9

 UNIVERSITY COMMUNICATIONS AND MARKETING

With Knight Foundation, we encourage
Zips to explore the city around them
The Knight Foundation has renewed
our grant to conduct #ZipsInvade events
through the semester. With the funding,
we create pop ups around the city where
students with their Zip Cards can show up
to a business and receive a free item. The
goal is to encourage more Zips to explore
their city.
These “invasions” are announced on UA
social media at least 24 hours in advance
and give information about what is being
offered to students and how to get to the
business. The first #ZipsInvade event of

Class of new faculty
welcomed, introduced
With all the full-time faculty positions
filled in recent months, UCM is
helping to introduce our new colleagues
to the campus community.
We asked each to respond to questions
so that they could tell us more about
their work, and themselves. Now, over
the course of the semester, each is being
highlighted in a Q&A style feature
in the Digest, our e-newsletter for
employees.

10 University Communications and Marketing

the semester occurred on Aug. 23 and we
had 565 Zips attend for their scoop of ice
cream at Chill downtown.

 UNIVERSITY COMMUNICATIONS AND MARKETING

The University in your pocket
UA Mobile, the University’s free
smartphone app available on iOS
and Android, continues to grow
in reach and features.
To date, the app has been
downloaded more than 10,500
times - an increase of 61%
since the end of spring 2019
semester. During summer 2019,
the app underwent a complete
redesign, now serving all of UA’s
constituencies with individual
home screens and custom
content.
A new process developed by UCM using
the app, QR codes and Qualtrics, replacing
a dated student attendance check-in system,
has been heavily adopted by the Schools of
Music and Art, and has been well received.
Use of the new QR Check-in feature
continues to expand.

UCM, working closely with IT, will be
introducing several new student-focused
features throughout the fall. These include
viewing student holds, checking an account
balance, viewing the course catalog, adding
and dropping classes, and the ability to query
students in PeopleSoft and notify them with
a push notification on their phone.
To download, go to uakron.edu/mobile.

Let’s talk about college
A new digital campaign strives to encourage
family members and prospective students
to talk about college earlier in the student
journey. Parents complete a questionnaire
with their student to learn which factors are
most important in their college search.

University Communications and Marketing

11

 UNIVERSITY COMMUNICATIONS AND MARKETING

A cleaner home
page with a focus
on attracting more
students
We redesigned our home page to
give it a cleaner appearance and to
strengthen our appeal to prospective
students.
The new page also gives us more
latitude to promote major University
initiatives and events.

Marking time
In anticipation of the
University’s upcoming
sesquicentennial, we posted
a timeline commemorating
some of the most important
events — and amusing
anecdotes and trivia — of
the last 150 years. See it at
uakron.edu/150.

12 University Communications and Marketing

 UNIVERSITY COMMUNICATIONS AND MARKETING

A friendly digital nudge
to complete your application
We continue to work with the Office of
Admissions and Fathom to implement
digital marketing campaigns in support of
new freshman recruitment.
The goal of this newly added digital
marketing campaign is to increase
application completions from prospective
students who started to fill-out an
application on either the UA app or the
Common App but have not completed and
submitted it.

Engineering as a Zip
Prospective students who have
expressed an interest in the field of
engineering will receive a new direct
mail publication that touts the quality
and advantages of an engineering
degree from UA, as well as testimonials
and outcome information.

University Communications and Marketing

13

 FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE
TAB 15

GOVERNMENT RELATIONS REPORT

THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING

October 9, 2019

 PUBLIC LIAISON AND GOVERNMENT RELATIONS UPDATE
August-September 2019
The University of Akron Government Relations Office and Public Liaison communicate with
local, state, and federal elected officials and staff about University priorities and objectives. We
also monitor and track legislation, regulations, and financial issues and opportunities that could
impact higher education and the University in particular. We assist in other meetings on and off
campus with elected officials and community leaders with both our administration and our
students. During the months of August and September, the elected state officials we hosted on
campus included Ohio Treasurer Robert Sprague, Ohio Secretary of State Frank LaRose, Rep.
Casey Weinstein, Rep. Bill Roemer, and Rep. Jeff Crossman. Presidential candidate and Ohio
Congressman Tim Ryan connected electronically with our Campaign Battleground class and
interacted with students. We represented the University and the Bliss Institute at town halls and
political conferences, and participated in public intellectual events, such as the Ohio Debate
Commission panel and the interview of Christopher Leonard about his recent book Kochland. In
addition, we are setting up meetings for Dr. Gary Miller with elected officials and other
important constituents. At the state level, we are preparing for the capital bill planning process. A
more detailed legislative update is found at the end of this report.
State of Ohio Treasurer Robert Sprague: Financial Literacy Tour
On August 6, 2019, the Public Liaison assisted in hosting a meeting on campus for the
Honorable Robert Sprague, Treasurer of the State of Ohio, and staff members. Treasurer Sprague
and his staff are visiting universities to learn how they are educating students about financial
literacy. Student Affairs, ZipAssist, Student Financial Aid, and Career Services were all
represented in the discussion.

Ms. Laura Carey, Director of Career Services; Ms. Jennifer Harpham, Director of Student
Financial Aid; Mr. Ty Matthews, Special Assistant to Treasurer Sprague; Ms. Rebecca
Armstrong, Deputy Director for Public Affairs, Treasurer Sprague; Treasurer Robert Sprague;
1

 Dr. John Messina, VP, Student Affairs; Ms. Alison Doehring, Director, ZipAssist; and Mr.
Michael Kulick, Associate Director Career Services.

Ohio Debate Commission
On August 12, 2019, the public liaison assisted in setting up Dr. John Green’s participation on a
panel at the City Club of Cleveland concerning the emerging role of statewide debate
commissions and their potential to create debates that better serve the public, the candidates, and
democracy.

Dr. John Green and fellow panelists participating in the No Debate about It: The Future of
Political Debates at the City Club of Cleveland.

2

 Regional Campus Legislative Day Planning
On August 15, 2019, Deans from Ohio’s regional campuses, led by IUC Regional Dean’s
Chairman Jarrod Tudor from The University of Akron’s Wayne College Campus, began
planning the 4th annual Regional Campus Legislative Day. The 2020 event will take place at the
end of February and is an opportunity for Deans and students from Ohio’s regional campuses to
share with legislators, key administration officials, and statewide officeholders the successes of
their campuses in helping to achieve the goal of degree attainment in the State of Ohio.
Ohio House Minority Leader Emilia Sykes’ Town Hall
On August 20, 2019, the public liaison and assistant director of the Ray C. Bliss Institute
attended Ohio House Minority Leader Emilia Sykes’ Town Hall (which also included Senator
Vernon Sykes and Rep. Tavia Galonski). The Bliss Institute and the Admissions Office both
staffed tables at the event, and the University was recognized by Leader Sykes.

Leader Emilia Sykes speaking to community members.
Salt Fork Policy Conference
On September 4-6, the public liaison attended the Policy Conference at Salt Fork, which is a
nationally recognized, one-of-a-kind, public policy networking event. Held in off-election years,
the goal of this program is to bring together the members of the Ohio General Assembly with
public affairs professionals in a relaxed setting, rather than under the Statehouse dome, to discuss
issues that are being debated on Capitol Square. Many legislators, including the Speaker of the
Ohio House and the President of the Ohio Senate, attend this, present legislative updates, and
mingle with attendees.

3

 Speaker Larry Householder

Senate President Larry Obhof

Secretary of State Frank LaRose
On Saturday, September 7, The Honorable Frank LaRose, Secretary of State for the State of
Ohio and Akron’s own, attended the Zips football game and fired the cannon that signals the
beginning of the game. The game’s theme was Hometown Heroes, celebrating first responders
and military. Secretary LaRose served for 10 years in the United States Army as a member of the
101st Airborne and as a Special Forces soldier in the Green Beret. After he fired the cannon,
Secretary LaRose visited with guests in the President’s Suite. Rep. Bill Roemer and Rep. Jeff
Crossman also attended the game. Rep. Casey Weinstein attended the September 21 football
game.

Secretary of Frank LaRose with ROTC cadets and Zippy.

4

 Interview of Christopher Leonard
On September 16, 2019, Dr. Matt Akers interviewed Christopher Leonard, author of Kochland:
The Secret History of the Koch Industries and Corporate Power in America, in front of a
capacity crowd at Hudson Public Library. Participating in the interviews is a good way to
demonstrate the University’s involvement in the public intellectual life of the community.

Dr. Matt Akers with author Mr. Christopher Leonard
Board Appointments
On September 17, 2019, the Senate Finance Committee unanimously approved the Governor’s
appointment of Mr. Mike Dowling to The University of Akron Board of Trustees, and also
unanimously approved the Governor’s appointment of Mr. Taylor Bennington as Student Trustee
to The University of Akron Board of Trustees.

Love Akron Breakfast
On September 24, 2019, Dr. John Green, on behalf of the Greater Akron Civility Center, which
is housed in the Ray C. Bliss Institute of Applied Politics at The University of Akron, awarded
the first annual Greater Akron Civility Award to Pastor Mark Ford, the immediate past executive
director of Love Akron. More than 600 people attended the breakfast, and Dr. Green was able to
tell the crowd about the work the Greater Akron Civility Center has done since its founding in
January 2019.

5

 Pastor Mark Ford receiving the Greater Akron Civility Center Award from Dr. John Green
Campaign Battleground Class
Dr. Matt Akers is team teaching a course entitled “Campaign Battleground: The Invisible
Primary and 2020 Election Overview.” The class, which has more than 50 students in it, includes
many guest speakers with practical campaign experience as well as academics, journalists, and
pundits. On September 11, 2019, Presidential candidate and current Ohio Congressman Tim
Ryan spoke with the class electronically and spent more than half-an-hour interacting with
students and giving them an insider look at running for president.

6

 Presidential Candidate and Congressman Tim Ryan addresses Campaign Battleground: The
Invisible Primary and 2020 Election Overview course.

State Legislative Update

Capital Bill – the capital appropriations bill is the state’s “bricks and mortar” building and
renovations legislation. Aside from the agency projects, the capital bill also contains
“community projects” to which a small portion of the overall bill is allocated. The Office of
Budget and Management (OBM) recently released its capital budget guidance, and The
University of Akron is preparing to submit its capital priorities. UA typically receives around
$20 million for its projects. Capital submissions are due to OBM by October 28 and bill passage
will be early to mid-March.
H2Ohio Fund – the state Operating Budget included a $172 million H2Ohio fund aimed at
protecting Lake Erie, other state waterways, and community water projects. Approximately $46
million of the fund will be dedicated to wetland restoration to help prevent nutrient runoff that
contributes to algal blooms. UA is exploring opportunities to participate having been in talks
with the Ohio Department of Natural Resources and is seeking to work with the Ohio
Department of Agriculture.
7

 H.B. 2 (Cross/LePore-Hagan)– Tech Cred bill - passed the House (92-3) and is having hearings
in the Senate. HB 2 is aimed at addressing some of the challenges faced by businesses and
individuals when it comes to training and workforce development. The state Operating Budget
(HB 66) included a $30 million appropriation over the biennium ($15 million/year) to support
employers who provide current or prospective workers with credentials or certificates with a
grant and reimbursement system. HB 2 is the implementing language to accompany the
appropriation.
H.B. 4 (Richardson/Robertson) Workforce Credentials bill – passed the House (89-0) and is
beginning hearings in the Senate. The Chair of the Senate Transportation, Commerce &
Workforce Committee hearing the bill spoke favorably about the bill seeming to suggest it will
pass the Senate. HB 4 permits the Office of Workforce Transformation (OWT) to serve as
liaison between the workforce industry, Ohio Department of Education, and the Ohio
Department of Higher Education. The bill empowers the OWT to work directly with employers
to either facilitate new industry-recognized credentials and certificates or to connect employers
to existing programs and resources.
H.B. 16 (Perales) – Military Service-In-State Tuition bill - grants in-state tuition for active duty
members of the military and their dependents who are stationed in the State of Ohio, but may not
be permanently domiciled here. The bill received strong support from the higher education
community and passed the Ohio House unanimously. To date, the Ohio Senate has had two
hearings. Additional hearings and passage are expected.
H.B. 88 (Antani) Campus Free Speech bill - generally prohibits a state institution of higher
education from taking any action or enforcing any policy that limits or restricts the free
expression rights of its students, student groups, faculty, staff employees, and invited guests in
public areas of campus. (Note: The bill has not been heard since April and the committee chair
has indicated he does not intend to schedule the bill for additional hearings unless and until the
sponsor can secure the votes needed for its passage and he gets the green light from
leadership. Neither of these is expected to occur any time soon, if at all. Many universities have
adopted policies similar to the “Chicago Statement,” including The University of Akron, which
may have dampened the immediate “need” for the legislation.
H.B. 194 (Greenspan/Kelly) Sports Gambling bill – legalizes, regulates, and taxes sports gaming
(betting) in Ohio under the authority of the State Lottery Commission. It allows sports gaming
in relation to professional or collegiate sports and athletic events, motor races and any other
special event authorized by the Commission. A number of letters have been drafted and will be
submitted when hearings on the bill resume. Letters include a joint letter from Inter-University
Council and Association of Independent Colleges and Universities of Ohio asking the Ohio
General Assembly to exempt collegiate sports from the sports wagering bill, and a draft letter
signed by Athletic Directors from public universities along with University of Dayton and
Xavier University.

8

 Ohio IP Promise
One of the key focuses for the administration of Governor DeWine and the InnovateOhio office
lead by Lt. Governor Jon Husted, is to streamline and modernize how universities and businesses
work together. One of the efforts of that goal was to create the Ohio IP Promise, which is an
effort aimed at streamlining the process for turning intellectual property into products and
services. In conjunction with InnovateOhio and the Inter-University Council (IUC), The
University of Akron, as well as all of Ohio’s 14 colleges and universities, have agreed to include
instructions for potential entrepreneurs interested in commercializing university research, as well
as standard licensing agreement templates, on The University’s website. The goal of the Ohio IP
Promise is to attract world-class talent to Ohio’s research universities and to enable businesses to
more easily implement the work that those researchers create.

9

 Action Item for Consent Agenda Consideration:

1

*Proposed Curricular Change

October 9, 2019
For Information Only:

Board Meeting

Olivia P. Demas

2

Enrollment Management Report

3

Research Report

4

Student Affairs Report

*

CONSENT AGENDA:
ITEM 1

Academic Issues & Student Success

Presiding:

 ACADEMIC ISSUES & STUDENT SUCCESS
COMMITTEE
TAB 1

CURRICULAR CHANGE

THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING

October 9, 2019

 The Academic Issues & Student Success Committee will be asked to consider the following
curricular change at its meeting on October 4, 2019.
New Program:
Establish a new Master of Arts in Strategic Communication in the Buchtel College of Arts
and Sciences, School of Communication, proposal #16-18922
An online Master of Arts in Strategic Communication degree will offer four cognate areas of
focus: Health & Crisis Communication, Social Media, Sports Communication, or Science
Communication. The new program will be comprised of a reorganization of already approved
online courses and two new courses.

October 9, 2019
1

 THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
RESOLUTION 10- -19
Proposed Curricular Change

BE IT RESOLVED, That the recommendation presented by the Academic Issues &
Student Success Committee on October 9, 2019 for the following curricular change, as
recommended by the Faculty Senate, be approved.
•

Establish a new Master of Arts in Strategic Communication in the Buchtel College of Arts
and Sciences, School of Communication

M. Celeste Cook, Secretary
Board of Trustees

October 9, 2019

 ACADEMIC ISSUES & STUDENT SUCCESS
COMMITTEE
TAB 2

ENROLLMENT MANAGEMENT REPORT

THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING

October 9, 2019

 The University of Akron – Enrollment Management
Board of Trustees Report for October 2019
2019 Fall Semester – Zips at a Glance
A recruitment focused infographic was developed to highlight our new freshmen class for
prospective students/parents and school counselors.

1 Page

 2020 High School Class: Focus on Application Generation
During this time of year, the Office of Admissions is focusing on encouraging prospective
students to apply for admission and visit campus. Several campaigns and initiatives have been
launched to support these efforts.
Campaigns
The Akron Gold Application Campaign that launched in August targets Ohio and specific nonOhio students that are seniors in high school. The components of this campaign include the
Akron Gold marketed application, inquiry pool paper mailing, senior search paper mailing,
application deadline mailing, as well as a series of emails. There is an email campaign for
students and another for parents.
The Fathom digital marketing campaigns for Ohio and non-Ohio high school students that
focused on awareness and application generation, as well as abandoned applications launched as
well. These campaigns that include paid social, paid search, and display ads provide engagement
and awareness of a quality UA education in an exciting environment. Through these campaigns,
we are able to target the right audience and capitalize on the engagement.
Communication
Prospective students have received three mailings from the Office of Admissions:
• Viewbook mailed in August to inquiries
• Prospect Brochure mailed in September to the top 20,000 prospects – NEW
• Affordability Postcard mailed in October (segmented versions for Ohio and non-Ohio
residents) – NEW

2 Page

 Acceptance Packets are being mailed to students that are admitted. The Acceptance Packet
includes the acceptance letter and AGS scholarship award, if applicable, as well as a Next Steps
brochure and UA/Zippy sticker in the special Acceptance Packet folder.
Special topic emails are being sent to students on a weekly basis. Topics include quality
academics, Williams Honors College, campus life activities that our students are involved in
during this fall semester, scholarship opportunities/affordability, real-world experience, visit
campus, etc.
Special topic emails also are being sent to parents on a monthly basis. Topics are like those noted
above but, in a tone, geared toward parents.
Outreach
The Admissions Officers are representing UA and engaging with students and their families at
nearly 120 college fairs and more than 400 high school visits throughout Ohio, as well as
Pennsylvania, New York, Illinois, Michigan and Indiana. They also are hosting high school
counselor programs throughout Ohio, including the High School Counselor Advisory Board
meeting at UA on Friday, Nov. 15.
The Office of Student Financial Aid has already begun preparations for the next financial aid
cycle, beginning with a busy schedule of financial aid information nights at high schools
including Twinsburg, North Royalton, Sagamore Hills, St. Vincent/St. Mary, Woodridge, Ellet,
Ravenna, Revere, Copley, Green, Coventry and Springfield.
Events
We are hosting three major visit days on campus for prospective students and their family
members.

Engineering Visit
Day on Friday,
Sept. 27

Fall Visit Day on
Saturday, Oct. 19

Fall Visit Day on
Saturday, Nov. 2

3 Page

 The Admissions Office is hosting a Saturday Information Session and Campus Tour on Saturday,
Sept. 21. The students and their family members that attend our event will receive
complimentary tickets to the Akron Zips football game. We also are presenting to the high
school band students that are participating in UA Band Day on Sept. 21.
Information sessions and campus tours are available Monday through Friday in the morning and
afternoon, as well as individual appointments for students and their parents.
There are several special group visits, as well as high school bus trips planned for the fall
semester. Each of these initiatives includes an Admissions information session conducted by an
admissions counselor, as well as a campus tour guided by a current UA student.
Transfer and Adult Students: Focus on Outreach
Transfer Outreach/Direct Connect Outreach with Stark State:
Representatives from Transfer Services attended Open House programs at the two Stark State
campuses to promote the Direct Connect Program. MaryAnn Stoila, Helen Dauka, Brandon
Mikulski collaborated with Jeanette Russ of Stark State to present highlights and benefits of the
program at the Open House events. The current total of Direct Connect participants is nearly 120
students.
Transfer Website Redesign
Transfer Services collaborated with University Communications and Marketing (UCM) to
redesign the format of the Transfer Services web site. The redesign was based on analytics
provided by UCM on visitors’ interaction with the web site. Based on the results, the landing
page was redesigned to highlight the areas of the site that receive the most traffic. The high
traffic pages on the site include: Transfer Equivalency Database, How to Apply, Appointment
Request, Akron Guarantee Scholarship, Transfer Pathways & Guides, and Contact Us.
Communication
Transfer Services developed an electronic newsletter that was sent to all new incoming transfer
students. The newsletter contained helpful hints, reminders and other campus news to help the
students ease their transition to The University of Akron.
The Admissions Counselors that work with transfer students are emailing, calling and texting
students to move them through the enrollment process.
Outreach
Visits to community colleges: The Admissions Counselors will be visiting the following
community colleges during the fall semester: Stark State College, Tri-C, Lakeland Community
College, Lorain County Community College, North Central State Community College, Eastern
Gateway Community College, Columbus State Community College, Zane State Community
College, Community College of Beaver County, and Community College of Allegheny County.
These visits include individual appointments with students and scheduled transfer college fairs.

4 Page

 On Friday, October 25, Tri-C will bring students to UA for an admissions presentation, campus
tour and lunch in Rob’s Cafe. This visit will provide prospective transfer students with the
opportunity to learn more about UA and the transfer process.
Fall Visit Days: Transfer students are invited to the Fall Visit Days on Saturday, October 19 and
Saturday, Nov. 2. Transfer students will have the opportunity to participate in all the scheduled
activities including attending a transfer information session.
Personnel: Focus on Professional Development
Cassie Cunningham, Admissions Counselor, joined our team on Monday, Sept. 16. Cassie comes
to UA after serving as an Admissions Counselor at Thiel College.
Courtney Johnson-Benson, Senior Assistant Director of Admissions will be attending NACAC’s
75th National Conference on September 26 – 28 in Louisville, Kentucky. Courtney is the
NACAC Delegate on behalf of OACAC. (NACAC – National Association for College
Admissions Counseling and OACAC – Ohio Association for College Admissions Counseling.)
Financial Aid: Focus on Student Support
The Office of Student Financial Aid launched another successful year of financial aid support to
more than 16,000 UA students, awarding more than $65 million in gift aid including federal and
state grants and institutional, private, and state scholarships.
The refinement of customer service continues with the help of our Financial Aid Support Center
including 24/7/365 access to a financial aid advisor through telephone or chat. During the
months of July and August alone, the support center handled more than 9,600 calls and
chats. Student contacts accounted for 77% of the total and 21% were from parents. The average
hold time to speak with an advisor during August was 1 minute 53 seconds. Financial aid
advisors continue to be available for walk-in visitors throughout the day with average wait times
of ten minutes or less during the busy season.

5 Page

 ACADEMIC ISSUES & STUDENT SUCCESS
COMMITTEE
TAB 3

RESEARCH REPORT

THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING

October 9, 2019

 Report to the Board of Trustees
October 2019

___________________________________________________________________________________________

RESEARCH & SCHOLARLY ACTIVITIES

RESEARCH 1

 Research and Scholarly Activities Highlights
Color production mechanisms in spiders
Dr. Todd Blackledge, professor of biology, with former UA Associate Professor Matt Shawkey and Bor-Kai (Bill)
Hsiung, Ph.D., class of 2017, have published their latest findings in the Journal of Arachnology. Dr. Hsiung
completed his Ph.D. in Integrated Bioscience and conducted his UA research through the Biomimicry Research
and Innovation Center (BRIC). Dr. Hsuing is continuing his research as a postdoc at the UC San Diego Scripps
Institution of Oceanography.
The team’s spider research is multi-faceted. This particular article focuses on
the color production mechanisms in spiders (such as the peacock spider
shown) and summarizes the state-of-the-art understanding of the topic,
suggests future research directions, and facilitates advancements in related
fields, including ecology, evolution, and functions of spider coloration.

Journal of Consumer Marketing award for outstanding paper
Dr. Alexa Fox, assistant professor of marketing, has received the Journal of Consumer Marketing’s award for
Outstanding Paper, for her research paper titled “Selfie-marketing: exploring narcissism and self-concept in
visual user-generated content on social media.” The research was conducted by Dr. Fox, along with
researchers from Loyola University, New Orleans, Penn State Harrisburg, and Clarion University, and
analyzed the popularity of selfies as it relates to classic research on narcissism. They found that
millennials present different versions of themselves based on the social media network’s
environment such as Instagram and Shapchat. This research will help marketers adapt to the
changing environment of social media and provide a better understanding of consumers.
"Our research offers implications for what type of content resonates most on various social media
platforms," explains Fox. "For example, marketers of products designed to improve customers' lives in some
way, like cosmetics, might benefit from using Instagram, whereas products designed with everyday life in mind,
like coffee, might be more successful on Snapchat."

New coating combines high hardness of boron carbide and the low friction of DLC
Dr. Yalin Dong and Dr. Chang Ye, associate professors of mechanical engineering; Dr. Gary Doll, Timken
Professor and Director of the Timken Engineered Surfaces Laboratories; and their students have reactively
sputtered boron carbide with acetylene to form a boron containing diamond-like carbon (DLC) coating.
The world-wide demand for increased durability of mechanical components used in challenging
environments has driven the development of coating materials with high hardness to deliver greater wear
resistance. The team chose boron carbide (B4C) since it is one of the hardest known materials,
comparable to diamond at room temperature; and the hardest known material at elevated
temperatures.
Even though a systematic study of the tribological performance of the coating is still needed,
this new coating’s wear resistance is superior to a commercial coating currently used on rolling
element bearings and gears. Their research findings are published in the October issue of
Wear, an international journal on the science and technology of friction, lubrication, and wear.

Cover photos illustrate the breadth and depth of UA’s research and scholarly activities as highlighted within this report. On the cover, L-R, row 1: a variety
of colorful spiders: blue tarantula, ladybug spider, lynx spider, and peacock spider; row 2: (1) opioid detection mat, (2) self-threading monomer, (3) NSF REU
program, and (4) tree roots; row 3: (1) extracting DNA from bones, (2-3) social media logos, (3) workplace adaptability for accessibility needs, and (4) weld
stress failures; and row 4: (1) NASA tire design, and (2) Greenland’s northernmost explored cave, photo by Robbie Shone.
RESEARCH 2

 UA researchers make the most of biomechanics research event
UA researchers were among the dozen research teams from around the world included in
Davey Tree Expert company’s Biomechanics Week held in August at their Shalersville
research station. “Biomechanics Week is a creative partnership of scientists working
together for the good of the industry,” said Anand Persad, Ph.D., director of arboriculture
and energy client programs at the Davey Institute. “Over the course of one week, these
teams conduct practical research that produces results directly applicable to the
arboriculture industry.”
Witnessing this hands-on experimentation with real trees in an outdoor setting was
especially valuable to the Biomimcry Research and Innovation Center (BRIC) Ph.D. students, under the guidance
of Dr. Petra Gruber, associate professor of art and biology. One student, an engineer, is specializing in coastal
resilience of Lake Erie, while the other, an architect, is studying the biomechanics of tree roots and applying that
knowledge to design concepts for stronger building foundations to withstand extreme events such as flooding.
The lab collaborates with Davey Tree on developing a field photogrammetry methodology to create 3D models
of root morphologies.

Investigating the optimum skeletal element and bone tissue type to select for maximum nuclear
DNA yield
Dr. Janna Andronowski, assistant professor of biology, along with co-researchers from the University of
Tennessee and the University of Saskatchewan, have published their latest findings, “Application of X-ray
photoeletron spectroscopy to examine surface chemistry of cancellous bone
and medullary contents to refine bone sample selection for nuclear DNA
analysis,” in the Journal of Analytical Atomic Spectrometry. This forensic
science research sheds new light on the relationship between nuclear DNA
yield and cancellous bone/medullary contents.

UA’s Structures Laboratory conducts safety testing of cantilevered light poles
Dr. Craig Menzemer, College of Engineering Interim Dean and professor of civil
engineering, with a graduate assistant have published their test results, titled “A finite
element study of welded aluminum shoe-base light pole details,” in the November 2019
issue of Engineering Structures.
This study employs fatigue test results for welded aluminum shoe-base details generated in
the laboratory as the basis for numerical studies using commercial finite element software
(ANSYS). A parametric study incorporating changes in the geometry of the model was
performed to better understand the behavior of welded aluminum shoe-base details under
local stresses and different dimensions as well.

Out of this world better tire design
Dr. Heather Oravec, research associate professor in the
Department of Mechanical Engineering, is contracted to work full
time at NASA Glenn Research Center in Cleveland. One of her
duties is testing tire designs using artificial soils that mimic Mars or
lunar terrain. She refers to the current design she is working with
as “memory metal” that can “envelope the rocks [and it]
remembers what its original position was.”
When Dr. Oravec is not working on tire designs, she works on
docking designs and seals for the International Space Station.

Heather Oravec rolls a nickel titanium Shape Memory
alloy tire on a simulated extraterrestrial surface in a
lab at NASA Glenn Research Center in Cleveland.
Photo: Mike Cardew/Beacon Journal/Ohio.com
RESEARCH 3

 New ingenious self-threading monomer
An Ohio State University research team, with UA’s Dr. David Modarelli, professor of chemistry, has published
their research discovery in an article titled “Threading carbon nanotubes through a self-assembled nanotube,” in
the latest issue of Chemical Science. Simply put, by Matthew Blow, publishing
editor at the Royal Society of Chemistry, the researchers “devised a sheath for
carbon nanotubes that threads itself into place, piece by piece… like beads onto
an abacus, before reconnecting to form a robust sheath.” This work is the
foundation for the design and assembly of hierarchically ordered, multicomponent
nanostructures for use in a wide range of potential applications from
optoelectronics to biomedicine.

International team explores remote Greenland caves
Dr. Hazel Barton, professor of Biology, reknowned cave
geomicrobiologist, was invited to join an interdisciplinary
international research team that also included a specialist in
geological mapping from Oxford University, a glaciologist with
expertise with the Greenland Ice Sheet and climate change from
the University of Sheffield, and experts in geology and cave
permafrost studies from the University of Innsbruck. The
expedition team, funded by the Austrian Science Fund, also
included a medic, a photographer, a safety and rigging expert, a
helicopter pilot, and a mechanic.
The team documented and explored more than thirty caves that
had never previously been visited.

Large hoar frost crystals the size of dinner plates
coat the walls and ceiling in a cave in North-east
Greenland. Photo: Robbie Shone

Polymer undergraduate research program completes another successful summer
Congratulations to the 17 interns (shown at left)
who recently completed the 2019 Research
Experience for Undergraduates (REU) program!
Launched in 2004, this program brings students
from across the country to learn about research
methods and polymers. Under the direction of
Dr. Mesfin Tsige, professor of polymer
science, the eleven week program provides
undergraduate students with valuable work experiences and rare resources, opportunities to work alongside
graduate students in the field, and the ability to learn more about polymers through different disciplines,
including but not limited to engineering, chemistry, physics, and biomaterials.

Adult Workers with Chiari Malformation and the CCT Model of Adaptation
Dr. David Tokar and Dr. Kevin Kaut, professors of psychology, with a research partner from
NEOMED, examined the career construction theory (CCT) model of adaptation using a sample
of working adults diagnosed with Chiari malformation, a chronic health condition with varying
degrees of cognitive, sensory, motor, and psychosocial complications. Their findings are
published in the Journal of Career Assessment.

RESEARCH 4

 Technology Transfer Highlights
UA Research Foundation takes on enhanced role in innovation and entrepreneurship
UA Interim President John Green designated the University of Akron Research
Foundation (UARF) to take on an enhanced leadership role in coordinating
programming on innovation and entrepreneurship for UA students and faculty.
These efforts build upon UARF’s successful I-Corps Site program and startup
company support services, as well as efforts by faculty and staff with an interest
in problem-solving, invention and social entrepreneurship. “Innovation and entrepreneurship are, and have long
been, central to The University of Akron’s (UA) mission,” Dr. Green said. “As a strategic priority, it is my goal to
raise the profile of innovation and entrepreneurship on UA’s campus and in the Greater Akron community.” UA
faculty, staff and students have been encouraged to reach out to UARF to share ideas on how entrepreneurship
and innovation can be more strongly integrated into courses and co-curricular activities.

UA licensee Ovivo continues progress on commercializing water treatment technology

Ovivo’s water treatment plant in
Canton is playing host to a pilot
project using UA algae technology

A dual purpose UA patented method for algae production and wastewater
treatment, invented by Distinguished Professor of Chemical and
Biomolecular Engineering Lu-Kwang Ju, was licensed to global wastewater
treatment company Ovivo. Since signing the license in 2015, Ovivo has
scaled up production of the process, launched a pilot plant in Canton, Ohio
to assess the technology, and delivered growing licensing revenue to the
university while advancing clean water solutions for the benefit of the
public. Ovivo’s license focuses on cleaning up wastewater through use of
algae.

UA completes Ohio Opioid Challenge project to protect first responders
Nearly 50,000 people die each year in the US after overdosing on opioids,
with Ohio being particularly hard hit from the second highest overdose rate
in the nation. Researchers from Professor Abraham Joy’s lab in the
Department of Polymer Science have developed a new technology to
immediately detect the presence of potentially lethal opioids, like fentanyl.
Potent opioids, like fentanyl, pose an immediate threat to victims, families,
first responders, security officials, mail handlers, and law enforcement
agents who can be harmfully exposed to the drug even through accidental
exposure. This chemistry invention is delivered in the form of cloth-like
wipes and swabs that change color when in contact with an opioid. These
UA’s opioid detection mat instantly
drug-detecting wipes would provide a quick check to ensure safety.
changes color on exposure to opioids
Prototypes have been tested, with excellent results, by criminal justice
professionals. An Ohio based company has been formed to commercialize the technology.

RESEARCH 5

 Research and Sponsored Programs Activity: By Source of Funds
July 1, 2019 - August 31, 2019
P R O P O S A L S (New and Continuing)

FY18

Count

Federal
State
Local
Corporate
NonProfit
Total

34
5
3
25
8
75

FY19

$
$
$
$
$
$

Count

Federal
State
Local
Corporate
NonProfit
Other*
Total

46
3
1
17
10
1
78

FY20

Count

Federal
State
Local
Corporate
NonProfit
Other*
Total

35
3
2
21
9
2
72

Total $
13,332,028
4,268,640
86,323
1,564,099
1,028,694
20,279,784

$
$
$
$
$
$

Anticipated
Anticipated UA and
IDC $
Non-UA Cost Share $
4,160,884 $
204,654
- $
3,264,600
3,513 $
364,497 $
60,206 $
4,589,100 $
3,469,254

Total $
16,560,694
3,089,768
24,967
1,063,857
1,031,478
1,200
21,771,964

Anticipated
Anticipated UA and
IDC $
Non-UA Cost Share $
4,842,064
457,920
125,687
42,760
5,152
268,091
75,361
5,316,355
500,680

Total $
11,239,563
237,177
15,995
1,001,043
368,371
724,948
13,587,097

Anticipated
Anticipated UA and
IDC $
Non-UA Cost Share $
3,087,116
100,088
48,509
209,966
23,720
5,382
132,324
225,388
3,501,635
330,858

Proposals (in millions)

$25

Other

$20

NonProfit

$15

Corporate

$10

Local

$5
$0

State

FY18

FY19

FY20

Federal

*Other is comprised of sponsor types: individual, non-U.S. government, and other universities.
This report may co-report with UA's Development Office.

RESEARCH 6

 Research and Sponsored Programs Activity: By Source of Funds
July 1, 2019 - August 31, 2019
AWARDS

FY18

Count

Federal
State
Local
Corporate
Other*
Total

34
2
6
25
7
74

FY19

$
$
$
$
$
$

Total $
4,975,053
2,125,000
86,323
1,528,735
221,793
8,936,904

$
$
$
$
$
$

Total $
3,947,086
3,195,235
24,967
912,654
128,575
8,208,517

Count

Federal
State
Local
Corporate
Other*
Total

29
5
1
17
6
58

FY20

Count
21
4
3
21
8
57

Federal
State
Local
Corporate
Other*
Total
$9

Total $
4,657,183
112,590
24,000
999,623
176,371
5,969,767

$
$
$
$
$
$

$
$
$
$
$
$

Anticipated
Anticipated UA and
IDC $
Non-UA Cost Share $
1,391,845 $
58,520
- $
2,125,000
3,513 $
175,829 $
75,000
10,363 $
12,156
1,581,549 $
2,270,676

$
$
$
$
$
$

Anticipated
Anticipated UA and
IDC $
Non-UA Cost Share $
58,520
1,186,929 $
126,667 $
78,945
5,152 $
226,532 $
5,892 $
1,200
1,551,172 $
138,665

$
$
$
$
$
$

Anticipated
Anticipated UA and
IDC $
Non-UA Cost Share $
1,029,450 $
6,615
16,658 $
30,800
3,302 $
257,656 $
11,481 $
3,698
1,318,547 $
41,113

Awards (in millions)
Other
Corporate
Local
State
Federal

$6
$3
$0

FY18

FY19

FY20

*Other is comprised of sponsor types: foundation/nonprofit, individual, non-U.S. government, and other universities. This
report does not include testing agreements. Also, this report may co-report with UA's Development Office.

RESEARCH 7

 Research Activity: By Source of Funds
July 1, 2019 - August 31, 2019
RESEARCH EXPENDITURES

FY18
Federal
State
Local
Corporate
Other*
Total

Total $
1,936,095
779,046
12
504,859
1,723,292
4,943,305

$
$
$
$
$
$

FY19
Federal
State
Local
Corporate
Other*
Total

$
$
$
$
$
$

Total $
1,830,264
2,710,149
14,435
1,070,302
2,005,879
7,631,030

$
$
$
$
$
$

Total $
1,771,641
1,712,786
12,565
1,232,997
1,534,851
6,264,841

FY20
Federal
State
Local
Corporate
Other*
Total

$9

$
$
$
$
$
$

Actual
IDC $
583,921
73,805
105,650
134,347
897,723

$
$
$
$
$
$

Actual
IDC $
539,145
49,471
321,147
107,396
1,017,159

$
$
$
$
$
$

Actual
IDC $
545,045
4,462
322,587
115,749
987,843

$
$

166,437
369,229

$
$
$
$
$
$

Actual
Cost Share $
13,757
1,520,445
8,389
128,203
1,670,794

Actual
Cost Share $
$
12,660
$
1,587,437
$
8,066
$
$

86,369
1,694,533

Expenditures (in millions)
Other
Corporate
Local
State
Federal

$6
$3
$0

Actual
Cost Share $
$
27,904
$
174,888

FY18

FY19

FY20

*Other is comprised of sponsor types: foundation/nonprofit, individual, non-U.S. government, and other universities.
Regarding expenditures, Other also includes institutional funding (such as startup accounts).
This report may co-report with UA's Development Office.
This page includes all research activity through the Office of Research Administration, as well as research-related accounts,
such as start-up funding.

RESEARCH 8

 Research and Sponsored Programs Activity
7-Year Comparative Data: Proposals, Awards, Expenditures

Fiscal Years 2014 through 2020-to-date
(dollars in millions)

Cumulative New Proposal Dollars Sought
$175

2019-20td

$150

2013-14

$125

2014-15

$164.10
$135.21
$123.39
$118.95
$103.57
$93.19

2015-16

$100

2016-17

$75

2017-18

$50

2018-19

$25
$0

$13.11M New Proposals Submitted FY20td
Jul

Aug

2019-20td

$35

2013-14

$30

2014-15

$20
$15

Oct

Nov

Dec

Jan

Feb

Mar

Apr

May

Jun

Cumulative New Dollars Awarded

$40

$25

Sep

$36.64

2016-17

$33.48
$30.01
$29.47
$28.25

2017-18

$22.98

2015-16

2018-19

$10
$5
$0

$5.97M Awards Received FY20td
Jul

Aug

Sep

Oct

Nov

Dec

Jan

Feb

Mar

Apr

May

Jun

Cumulative Expenditure Dollars on Externally-Funded Research and Other Awards ("5" accounts)
$40

2019-20td

$35

2013-14

$30

2014-15

$38.48
$34.57
$30.48

2015-16

$26.15

$25

2016-17

$20

$26.14
$21.34

2017-18
2018-19

$15
$10
$5
$0

$4.24 M Expenditures ("5" accounts) FY20td
Jul

Aug

Sep

Oct

Nov

Dec

Jan

Feb

Mar

Apr

May

Jun

RESEARCH 9

 Research and Sponsored Programs Activity
7-Year Comparative Data: Proposals, Awards, Expenditures

Fiscal Years 2014 through 2020-to-date
Cumulative Count of New Proposals Submitted
500

499
480
457
422

2019-20td

450

2013-14

400

2014-15

350

373

2015-16

300

299

2016-17

250

2017-18

200

2018-19

150
100
50
0

52 New Proposals Submitted FY20td
Jul

Aug

Sep

Oct

Nov

Dec

Jan

Feb

Mar

Apr

May

Jun

Cumulative Count of New Award Funding Received
450
400
350
300
250
200
150

2019-20td
2013-14
2014-15
2015-16
2016-17
2017-18
2018-19

421
407
401
336
245
235

100
50
0

57 Awards Received FY20td
Jul

Aug

Sep

Oct

Nov

Dec

Jan

Feb

Mar

Apr

May

Jun

RESEARCH 10

 Technology Transfer: Invention Disclosures and Patent Activity FY06 to present
Disclosures submitted in FY20 to date
continue in a variety of fields, with 50% being
in computers/data/sensors/devices. All are
being assessed regarding the technology and
potential market and may be protected with
a provisional patent. A provisional patent
application protects an invention for one
year. During this time a technology and
market assessment is conducted to
determine if a non-provisional patent should
be filed. Once filed, it takes several years for
the claims to be evaluated, revisions to be
filed, and a patent to issue.

Disclosures by Technology - FY20
25%

Computers, Data, Sensors & Devices
Medical

50%

Polymer Science

25%

The funding source of research leading to inventions can
affect the ability to commercialize the technology.
Industry research agreements usually provide options for
exclusive or non-exclusive licenses, with negotiated fees.
Agreements often include provision for patent costs to be
paid by the research sponsor. Government funding gives
the university the right to patent and license, while
including government use provisions. Other funding
sources typically leave patent rights under university
control and responsibility. Regardless of research funding,
by Ohio statute any intellectual property created by State
employees or by anyone using state funding or facilities is
owned by UA.

Disclosures by Funding Source - FY20
25%

25%
Govt
Industry

13%

Other
UA

37%

UA Disclosures: FY06 - Present
90

Pending Disclosures

Provisional

Non-Provisional

Closed

Patents

80
18

70
60

19

10
0

1
7

21

15

29

FY07

39
36

FY08

39

FY09

2

1

FY10

FY11

6

6

FY12

FY13

1

FY14

18

13

FY16

2

1

FY17

40

17

18
2

2

FY15

7

21

14

13

6

31

40

27
3

FY06

62

46

51
31

10

1
21

29

26

30
20

22

23

9

50
40

33

FY18

10

6

FY19

FY20

RESEARCH 11

2

 U.S. Patents Issued from July 1, 2019 to August 31, 2019

(Sorted by Funding Source & Technology)
U.S. Patent

Issue Date

10,336,896

7/2/2019

10,350,795

7/16/2019

Patent Title
One-Pot Synthesis of Highly Mechanical
and Recoverable Double-Network
Hydrogels
Flexible and Electrically Conductive
Polymer Films and Methods of Making
Same

Inventors
Jie Zheng, Qiang Chen
and Chao Zhao
Mukerrem Cakmak

10,344,304

7/9/2019

Lu-Kwang Ju and
Materials Derived From FermentationShida Miao
Produced Rhamnolipids and Methods of
Production

10,336,137

7/2/2019

Electrorheological Fluids Incorporated
into Polymeric Articles and Tires

10,376,009

8/13/2019

Impact Protection and Shock Absorbing
System and Method

10,386,249

8/20/2019

Wearable Inductive-Force Sensor

10,340,458

7/2/2019

10,335,490

7/2/2019

10,368,886

8/6/2019

10,336,923

7/2/2019

Photoresponsive Polymers for Adhesive
Applications

10,336,862

7/2/2019

Biodegradable Polymers with Pendant
Functional Groups Attached Through
Amide Bonds

Shing-Chung (Josh)
Wong
Emily Kennedy,
Daphne FecheyrLippens, Bor-Kai
Hsiung, Douglas Paige
and Nathan Swift
Jiang Zhe and Li Du

Xiong Gong, Chang Liu
and Kai Wang
Fluorinated Polymerizable Hydrogels for Nic Leipzig and
Wound Dressings and Methods of Making Asanka Wijekoon
Same
Ajay Mahajan and
Surgical Apparatus With Force Sensor for
Zahra Najafi
Extraction of Substances Within the Body
Perovskite Hybrid Solar Cells

Abraham Joy, Ali
Dhinojwala and
Kaushik Mishra
Abraham Joy, Sachin
Gokhale and Ying Xu

College

Technology

Funding

COE

Advanced
Materials

Govt

CPSPE

Advanced
Materials

Govt

COE

Biotechnology

Govt

COE

Advanced
Materials

Other

BCAS

Computers, Data,
Sensors & Devices

Other

COE

Computers, Data,
Sensors & Devices

Other

CPSPE

Energy

Other

COE

Medical

Other

COE

Medical

Other

CPSPE

Polymer Science

Other

CPSPE

Medical

UA

RESEARCH 12

 ACADEMIC ISSUES & STUDENT SUCCESS
COMMITTEE
TAB 4

STUDENT AFFAIRS REPORT

THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING

October 9, 2019

 REPORT TO THE ACADEMIC ISSUES AND STUDENT SUCCESS COMMITTEE
October 9, 2019

RESIDENT STUDENT MOVE-IN
•
•

•

•

•

Residence Life and Housing (RLH) welcomed
resident students to campus on five move-in days.
The work of moving students in is no small task,
and it is RLH’s vision that the process be as
seamless as possible for students and their
families. As such, there were more than 600
volunteers from across campus including
students, faculty, and staff.
Fraternity & Sorority Life (FSL) members
celebrated a 15-year partnership with assisting
Residence Life and Housing during Move-In. From
student leaders running all volunteer check-in and
check-out stations, chapter members filling over
400 volunteer shifts, the FSL community
dedicated over 1,660 hours to helping first-year
and returning students move into their residence
hall.
Parents have been quick to praise, and thank,
Residence Life and Housing staff members this
week. They and a small army of volunteers have
once again made the transition from home to
campus a smooth one for students during our
annual Move-in Week. Our crews got packed cars
unloaded and then transported the possessions to
their destinations. By now, most rooms have been
transformed into a home away from home for the
academic year ahead.
“We are always excited for Move-in Week,” says
Dr. Melinda Grove, director of residence life and
housing. “These are our favorite days of the year
as we see the excitement of new beginnings in our
students’ faces. Our move-in process would not be
possible without the help of our amazing
Residence Life and Housing staff, Parking Services,
University Police, Physical Facilities, faculty and
staff volunteers, alumni who return to help, and
our student volunteers from fraternity and sorority
life and countless other student organizations.”

1 Page

 NEW STUDENT CONVOCATION
•

•

•

On Friday, August 23, 979 new students
attended New Student Convocation held
at First Energy Stadium – Cub Cadet
Field. Immediately following, attendees
made their way to a welcome reception
on Coleman Commons with the chance
to mingle with faculty, staff, and peers.
The Undergraduate Student
Government was represented by
President Mark Okocha at New Student
Convocation. Mark addressed the
incoming class of students with a crowdpleasing speech, offering both advice
and challenges on how to get the most
out of the collegiate careers ahead of his
audience.
Student Recreation and Wellness
Services supported Convocation by
providing games, activities, and staffing
support during the post convocation
celebration.

Undergraduate Student Government President Mark Okocha greets Zippy after
addressing a stadium full of new Zips

WELCOME WEEKEND
•

On Friday, August 23, the Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life (FSL) co-hosted with Campus Programs to kick
off the fall semester with their annual Glow Party with over 925 participants. During a Glow Party, students
are given a t-shirt and glow items and can enjoy a DJ, pizza and cookies.

Students of FSL dawning their various glow stick accessories

2 Page

 •

On Saturday, August 24, over 500 students attended the annual RA Lip Sync in EJ Thomas, sponsored by
Residence Life and Housing/Residence Hall Council.

Annual RA Lip Sync at EJ Thomas

•
•

•

•
•

Also on Saturday, Residence Life and Housing [Residence Hall Program Board (RHPB), Residence Hall Council
(RHC)] and EJ Thomas co-sponsored Casino Night with over 900 attendees.
Late Night at the Rec event, sponsored by Campus Focus, was hosted at the Student Recreation and Wellness
Center. There was dodgeball and futsal, as well as free pizza. Student Recreation and Wellness Services
supported with additional programs, tabling information, and rock climbing.
The Fraternity and Sorority Life Ice Cream Social was held on Saturday featuring 25 chapters, IFC, PHC and
NPHC governing councils. There were 721 non-affiliated students in attendance, which is a significant increase
from 2018, along with 235 current members of the fraternity and sorority community.
Over 180 student organizations participated in the annual RooFest event on Saturday. This involvement fairstyle event sponsored by the Student Organization Resource Center (SOuRCe) attracted over 3,900 guests and
continues to play an instrumental role in helping to welcome new students to UA.
On Sunday, August 25, RHPB, RHC, NRHH (National Residence Hall Honorary), and Sigma Lambda sponsored
tables at RooFest. Balloon artist Louis Paul was featured as part of the program with over 650 participants.

SRWS highlighted new program schedules for the semester during RooFest

3 Page

 •

Many new students opted to participate in New Roo Weekend by attending their first troop meetings, led by
current UA students serving as New Roo Weekend Leaders. Following troop meetings, 673 students
participated in one of the 18 breakout sessions available for students to choose from.
New Roo Weekend Breakout Session
Balancing on a Budget
Bookstore Basics
Chill Out with Career Services
Connecting as a Commuter
Do What Moves You
Get in the Game!
Getting the Right Start
Go Greek: Fraternity and Sorority Life Information Session
How to Get an A in Your First Math Course
Intro to Esports
Meal Plans and Dining 101
On Stage at UA!
Student Employment
Undergraduate Student Government
University of Akron Army ROTC
What is an Unclass?! Hacking Freshmen Year with the EX[L]
You’ve Got a Friend in Me
Your Involvement Starts Here
TOTAL

•

ATT
2019
33
33
16
27
35
75
34
47
110
75
10
30
43
20
2
2
11
70
673

After the breakout sessions, over 1,000 students made their way the Akron Civic Theatre for the first-year
speaker, Jon Vroman. Prior to the speaker, students were welcomed with a Coke Toast from Willy Kollman and
Dr. John Messina and took a class selfie.

Coke Toast from Willy Kollman and class selfie at Akron Civic Theater

•

•

Concluding the speaker, students marched together to Lock 3 for the Fall in Love with Akron event, which
promotes community agencies and involvement opportunities in the greater Akron area. New Zips were
exposed to some of the opportunities that exist beyond our University and encouraged to become more
involved in their community broadly. Many presenters from the earlier breakout sessions were also present,
giving students an opportunity to learn more about campus engagement.
During the event, students could get lunch from City Barbeque, Swenson’s, Barrio, and Firetruck Pizza food
trucks as well as the Lock 3 Concession Stand with a voucher provided through their attendance at New Roo
Weekend. Career Services also sponsored an ice cream truck where students could redeem an ice cream

4 Page

 voucher. W-ZIP was also present, along with many inflatables. Many donations were donated by campus
departments and community partners which were raffled off towards the end of the event. Approximately
1,000 students participated in the Fall in Love with Akron event.

Fall in Love with Akron event at Lock 3

•

Students were able to Chill Out with Career Services during a breakout session and at the Fall in Love with
Akron event. Students met the Career Services team, while learning about our services, resources, and fall
events. Career Services helped sponsor the ice cream truck for this event.

Chill Out with Career Services

5 Page

 Fall in Love With Akron at Lock 3

•

On Sunday, August 25, more than 450 students went on a class schedule tour, which were facilitated by New
Roo Weekend Leaders to assist new zips in locating their classroom locations for the first week of classes.

Class schedule tour where over 450 students located their classroom locations before classes beginning Monday.

6 Page

 WELCOME TEAM
During the first two days of the fall semester, tables were set up on
Buchtel Common, at the Polymer Circle turnaround, and at the JAR/Rec
Center turnaround to help students find their classes. Welcome Team
tables were staffed by over 75 volunteers, including faculty, staff, and
contract professionals 8:00am-5:00pm. Partnerships were also in place
with the ZipAssist Information Desk in Simmons Hall and the Student
Union Information Desk, branding the locations as official Welcome Team
spots to provide additional assistance.

KNOW THE CODE WORKSHOPS
Workshops to educate new students on campus safety, Code of Student Conduct, and sexual respect were copresented by The University of Akron Police Department, Parking Services, Student Conduct and Community
Standards, and the Dean of Students Office Wednesday, August 21 thru Friday, August 23, serving 2,122 students.
The makeup workshop conducted on Friday, September 6 served 290 more, making up 91 percent of the freshmen
class (total 2019 attendance 2,412). This is an increase show rate from 2018’s attendance by 8.3% percent. New
for 2019, students not in attendance at any workshop will be enrolled in an online workshop with electronic
version content delivered by the various campus speakers.

WELCOME BACK YARD PARTY
•
•

This is a new event this year hosted by Fraternity and Sorority Life in
which students enjoyed a barbeque, DJ and lawn games on Coleman
Common and was held the first day of classes.
ZPN planned and implemented three events and kicked off their
movie series during the first two weeks of class. These events
engaged a total of 3,061 students.
o ZPN hosted Welcome Back Bingo on August 22. This event
had a record-breaking turnout with over 500 students.
o The annual ZPN Festival occurred on August 29 which
promoted campus community. More than 600 students
were able to enjoy free food, inflatables, novelties, and
music.
o ZPN’s movie series showcased three different films,
Students enjoying the nice weather for the
including Us, Avengers: Endgame, and John Wick 3, offering Welcome Back Yard Party
a total of six showings. The total attendance for these
showings was 393.
• There were 67 students who participated in Two Yoga classes
and one Pink Gloves Boxing class which took place on the
Commons throughout the week with great student turnout.

Welcome Back Bingo

7 Page

 DIRECT CONNECT WELCOME EVENT
•

•

On July 31, Exploratory Advisors welcomed Stark State students participating in Direct Connect to campus with
approximately 16 students attending the event. Students participating in the event learned about partnered
advising and engagement opportunities at UA. In addition, students received a Direct Connect Zip Card and
had the opportunity to connect with Student Life, Athletics, and Parking.
Academic Advisors engaged with students and families before and during lunch to learn about their
educational and career goals, concluding with a campus tour.

CAREER SERVICES
•
•

During the summer of 2019, Career Services met with a total of 982 students for career advising
appointments. Career Services staff conducted 32 presentations to classrooms, student organizations and
New Student Orientations.
By the end of the summer, there were 17,637 employers using Handshake! During the summer, employers
posted 15,934 full-time and part-time positions, as well as 2,548 internship and co-op positions for our
students and alumni.

OHIO COLLEGE2CAREERS – NEW THIS FALL
UA’s Career Services and Office of Accessibility is excited to
begin partnering with Opportunities for Ohioans with
Disabilities (OOD) to offer the new Ohio College2Careers
program. UA is one of the first 15 public colleges and universities in Ohio to work with OOD to ensure eligible
students with disabilities have the support they need to seek internships, complete their degree and/or credential,
earn higher wages, and meet the demands of tomorrow’s labor market. Mara Byers, an OOD counselor, is located
on site at UA’s Career Center in the Student Union. Mara will also meet with students in the Office of Accessibility
in Simmons Hall.

SAY IT STRAIGHT
In cooperation with Summit County Public Health and the BSN Communities Nursing faculty, Student Health
Services is sponsoring the “Say It Straight” program that empowers young people with skills to communicate
effectively and honestly, build self-esteem, develop prosocial relationships and decrease harmful behaviors.
Programming is by registration and open to the first 20 participants. Training is 8 hours in duration over two
sessions and at completion students will receive a $50 gift card of their choice. Pending successful completion of
this pilot program additional dates will be offered to campus students 17-24 years of age.

CERTIFIED PEER EDUCATORS
On August 30, 2019 the initial 10 Certified Peer Educators (CPE’s) completed their supplemental training and
received their official certificates from the BACCHUS (Boosting Alcohol Consciousness Concerning the Health of
University Students) Initiatives of NASPA (National Association of Student Personnel Administrators). They will be
working on campus to initiate organic conversations around harmful alcohol consumption and other drug use.
Through a stipend provided by SAMHSA (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
Administration)/Communities Talk, the CPE’s will be presenting programming to the campus during Alcohol
Awareness week (October 21-25, 2019).

8 Page

 HELP-A-ZIP REFERRAL PROGRAM
The Help-A-Zip Referral Program is an early alert program that aims to provide needed resources and guidance to
enrolled UA students. From August 1 thru September 1, 2019 more than 185 students were referred to the
program and received additional support. The areas most commonly addressed with students during this period
include: tuition/fees, textbook assistance, adjusting to college, and academic support.

UNITED WAY OF SUMMIT COUNTY – FINANCIAL EMPOWERMENT CENTER/THE SALVATION ARMY OF
SUMMIT COUNTY
The University will continue to partner with United Way of Summit County – Financial Empowerment Center and
The Salvation Army of Summit County for the 2019-2020 academic year. These partnerships provide students with
access to free one-on-one financial coaching, social services, discounted childcare, and textbook assistance. A
financial coach from United Way is available once a week per private appointments with students and staff. As of
September 1, there is a four-week waiting list for these services. A licensed social worker from The Salvation Army
is on campus three days a week to meet with students and provide necessary support. This campus partner is
typically booked with appointments each week and regularly provides additional support outside of normal office
hours.

CAMPUS CUPBOARD
ZipAssist will assume responsibility for the Campus Cupboard (food/resource areas on campus) beginning in the
2019-2020 academic year. Due to the generous support of the Salvation Army , Undergraduate Student
Government, Barnes and Noble Bookstore, and a variety of donors, this program will continue to provide nonperishable items to students in need. Cupboards are located in the Student Union, Simmons Hall, and the Polsky
Building. Since August, more than 1,300 non-perishable goods, school supplies, and hygiene products have been
utilized at the Simmons Hall location alone. Discussions are taking place with local corporations and across campus
to discuss expanding this much needed resource.

STUDENT EMERGENCY FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE (SEFA) PROGRAM
The University of Akron has concluded a two-year pilot grant program with the Ascendium Education Group
(formally Great Lakes Higher Education). The Student Emergency Financial Assistance (SEFA) program provided
more than $325,000 in emergency aid support to over 420 enrolled students. The program resulted in a 99%
retention of students who received emergency support. Due to the generous support of a variety of donors and
local foundations, the SEFA program will continue. Referrals to the program typically focus on food insecurity,
affordable housing, reliable transportation, and basic needs. As a result of lessons learned from the SEFA program,
the ZipAssist office has transitioned to address these needs through new programs, innovative approaches, and
community partnerships.

FAMILY WEEKEND
In partnership with Homecoming, ZipAssist will host Family Weekend on October 11-13, 2019. A variety of events
such as a carnival, pumpkin painting, bingo, tie-dye, and various family-friendly activities have been planned.
Support for the weekend is provided by Downtown Akron Partnership, Student Recreation and Wellness Services,
Residence Life and Housing, the Department of Student Life, Myers School of Art, eSports, the Student Union, the
Civil Practice Legal Clinic, Bierce Library’s MakersSpace, and the Zips Programming Network.

9 Page

 AMERICORP
ZipAssist will host an AmeriCorp team member for the 2019-2020 academic year. This team member will focus on
food insecurity issues and is charged with implementing creative strategies to assisting students who may be in
need. This team member will begin working on campus at the end of September and will serve their term until
June 2020.

PARENTS AND FAMILY ASSOCIATION (PFA)
Through the Parents and Family Association (PFA), the ZipAssist team provides online education to parents about
affording college, textbooks, loans, and scholarships through a monthly webinar series. The September topic of
“Keeping Your Student Engaged With Campus” was co-presented by Adam Beverly, Coordinator of Involvement
within the Department of Student, and Alison Doehring, Director for ZipAssist.

PRESIDENT’S AWARD
Dr. Sara Rieder Bennett, Assistant Director of Testing, received
the President’s Award from the National College Testing
Association during the organization’s annual conference in
New Orleans.

Pictured 2nd from left: Dr. Sara Rieder Bennett, along
with other NCTA award winners

HOPE AND HEALING RAPE CRISIS CENTER OF SUMMIT AND MEDINA COUNTIES
In 2014, the University of Akron established a robust partnership with the Rape Crisis Center of Summit and
Medina Counties now known as Hope and Healing Rape Crisis Center of Summit and Medina Counties (RCC). A
Memorandum of Understanding outlines the responsibilities of the University and the agency and allows UA
students increased access to 24/7 victim services and a wealth of prevention programs and activities sponsored by
RCC. This year, the RCC is launching a campaign to raise visible awareness and engage students in conversations
about sexual assault prevention. They have enlisted the support of a small group of student leaders who will
receive a $100 incentive for enlisting fellow UA students willing to wear a free awareness raising T-Shirt to class or
events on campus. The shirts feature one of two slogans (“I Ask First” and “Creating a Culture of Consent”) and
include the number 330-434-7273 for the 24/7 victim services hotline. During the campaign students wearing the
shirts will also be eligible for additional prizes.

10   P a g e

 SERVE AKRON
In the month of August, serveAkron partnered with
Akron Hope and The Well CDC for a two-part program
series with the Teacher Supply Drive and First-Year
Student Service Project. Through the donation drive,
UA faculty, staff, and students donated over 450
essential items to support the classroom in Mason
Elementary and Helen Arnold to alleviate the amount
of personal funds teachers use to provide classroom
materials. On August 22, serveAkron kicked off the
school year with part two of the Akron Hope program
series: The First Year Service Project, with 31
volunteers assisting in sorting thousands of school
supplies collected for teachers in Mason Elementary
and Helen Arnold Community Learning Center.
Additionally, Helen Arnold teachers provided lists of
tasks to assist in preparing their classrooms for the
new year.

First-year students learn about Akron Hope and the impact of their
service within the Akron community

NATIONAL PANHELLENIC CONFERENCE COLLEGE PANHELLENIC EXCELLENCE AWARD
The University of Akron’s College Panhellenic
Council was recognized as a National Panhellenic
Conference (NPC) College Panhellenic Excellence
Award recipient. This award recognizes College
Panhellenics for their work to advance the sorority
experience. “NPC is proud to recognize the hard
work of our College Panhellenics in striving for
Panhellenic excellence,” said Linda Henderson,
NPC College Panhellenics Committee chairman.
“They have demonstrated a commitment to
upholding high standards for their College
Panhellenic as well as ensuring the sorority
The 2019 Panhellenic Executive Board (left to right): Mikayla Pfouts,
experience is beneficial to all members on their
VP Communications, Jessica Leyva, VP Membership, Morgan
campus.” NPC has recognized student-led College
Mosiniak, VP Recruitment, Emily McGrath, PHC President, Alicen
Panhellenic Associations with awards for more
Fimple, VP Administration, Amelia Manzier, VP Judicial Affairs,
than 50 years and has used the excellence and
Kyleigh Buhl, VP Risk Management, and Nichole Santangelo,
achievement structure since 2013. With NPC
VP Community Relations
member organization chapters located at more
than 670 U.S. and Canadian colleges and
universities, only the top-scoring groups are honored. College Panhellenic Associations are cooperatives comprised
of all NPC member sororities on a campus. The University of Akron’s Panhellenic is one of 26 chapters to receive
this award and has previously been recognized with Excellence in 2013, 2017, 2018 and with Achievement in 2015
and 2016.

11   P a g e

 FRESHMAN ORIENTATION TRIP
White water rafting outdoor adventure freshman orientation
trip took place this summer providing students the opportunity
to meet other classmates and participate in a unique
experiential learning opportunity. This collaborative program
with New Student Orientation and Student Recreation and
Wellness Services has created lasting friendships and
connections to campus facilities and administrators for over 10
years. The trip was whitewater rafting down the Class III Lower
Youghiogheny River, exploring the natural rock waterslide,
hiking, and visiting Cucumber Falls. A total of 15 incoming
freshmen participated and two New Student Orientation
leaders helped facilitate.

Freshman Orientation Trip - white water rafting at
Youghiogheny River

CUYAHOGA RIVER WATER TRAIL
Student Recreation and Wellness Services is a Stakeholder Partner in the Cuyahoga River Water Trail project that is
working on state designation of the Cuyahoga River. This project is being led by the National Park with the
designation is to take place on October 4. The Outdoor Adventure program is working with a variety of community
partners to continue progress toward the designation goal. The UA Outdoor Adventure program is the only
university with American Canoe Association (ACA) certified river kayak instructors on staff in Northeast Ohio.

12   P a g e

 Action Items for Consent Agenda Consideration:

1

*Revisions to University Rule 3359-11-05, Court and
military leave for all employees except bargaining unit
faculty

October 9, 2019
Board Meeting

2

Revisions to University Rule 3359-20-03.2, Faculty
workload policy

Presiding:
Alfred V. Ciraldo, M.D.

3

*Revisions to University Rule 3359-60-07,
School of law admission

Rules Committee

*

CONSENT AGENDA:
ITEMS 1, 3

  

DATE:

TO:

FROM

RE:

Office of the Vice President 
General Counsel

October 1, 2019

Dr. Rex D. Ramsier
Executive Vice President Chief Administrative Of?cer

John J. Reil

Associate 1 resident and Deputy General Counsel
Assistant Secretary, Board of Trustees

Summary of Rules Committee Agenda Items for the
October 9, 2019 Meeting of the Board of Trustees

The Rules Committee will be asked to consider revisions to the following Rules at its
meeting on October 4, 2019:

1.

O.A.C. 3359-11-05 Court and military leave for all employees exceLt
bargaining unit faculty.

Diane Shovestull, Payroll Manager, recommends revisions to this rule to: 
correct the title and delete the introductory paragraph, to better state the scope of
the rule; and, correct language concerning the means by which leave should be
recorded for University records.

O.A.C. 3359-20-03.2 Faculty workload policy.

The Of?ce of Academic Affairs proposes revisions to the faculty workload policy
rule to clarify: the applicability of the rule to tenured and tenure-track faculty;
and that certain academic units with unique situations may require special
consideration when assigning teaching responsibilities under the workload policy.

O.A.C. 3359-60-07 School of law admission.

The School of Law seeks to modify the admissions rule to permit the use of the
Graduate Record Exam (GRE) as an admissions? testing alternative to the
traditional LSAT admissions exam. This change would make Akron the ?rst public
law school in Ohio to accept the GRE as an admissions exam. The rule also has
been modi?ed to remove outdated information related to the admissions process.

3359-11-05

Court and military leave for all employeesexcept bargaining unit faculty.

This rule shall apply to all twelve-month faculty who are not bargaining unit faculty, and
it shall apply to contract professionals, and to unclassified exempt staff.
(A) Court leave.
(1) Except as otherwise provided by law or collective bargaining agreement, employees
will be granted leave with pay if:
(a) Summoned for jury duty by a court of competent jurisdiction,
(b) Subpoenaed to appear before any court, commission, board or other legally
constituted body authorized by the law to compel the attendance of witnesses,
where the employee is not a party to the action, or
(c) Participating in any action, as an appellant or subpoenaed witness, before the state
personnel board of review and is in active pay status at the time of scheduled
hearing before the board.
(d) When utilizing court leave, a copy of the summons or subpoena must be
forwarded to human resources for retention in the employee's personnel file. The
"notes" area of the time record should indicate "lwp-court leave." Court leave
should be reported on the time sheet by utilizing the "Jury Duty" pay code.
(2) An employee who is appearing before a court or other legally constituted body in a
matter in which the employee is a party, such as but not limited to a plaintiff or
defendant, may be granted vacation time or leave of absence without pay. Such
instances would include, but not be limited to, criminal or civil cases, traffic court,
divorce or custody proceedings, or appearing as directed as a parent or guardian of a
juvenile.
(3) Proof of appearance will be required.
(4) Any compensation or reimbursement for jury duty or for court attendance compelled
by subpoena, when such duty is performed during an employee's normal working
hours, shall be remitted by the university employee to the payroll office.
(B) Military leave.
(1) Qualifying employees of the university who are members of the Ohio national guard
or a reserve component of the armed forces are eligible for leave with pay for the
time they are performing service in the uniformed services. Such qualifying
employees may be eligible for leave with pay for periods of up to one month, for

 3359-11-05

2

each calendar year in which they are performing service in the uniformed services.
A copy of the employee's military orders or other authorizing document for such
duty must be submitted to human resources in all cases to qualify for leave with pay.
For purposes of this provision, a calendar year begins on the first day of January and
ends on the last day of December. As used in this provision, a month means
twenty-two eight-hour work days or one hundred seventy-six hours within one
calendar year.
(2) When utilizing military leave, a "PAF" is required to indicate the date military leave
commences.
(3) Qualifying employees entitled to leave provided under paragraph (B)(1) of this rule
and who are called or ordered to federal service in the uniformed services for more
than a month by an executive order issued by the president of the United States or by
an act of congress, are eligible for a leave of absence with pay during the period
designated in the order or act. Any such employee will be paid each month an
amount that equals the difference between the employee's gross monthly wage or
salary as a university employee and the sum of the employee's gross uniformed pay
and allowances received for that period. A copy of the employee's military orders or
other authorizing document for such duty, including but not limited to a military
leave and earnings statement, must be submitted to the employee's supervisor and
the appointing authority to qualify for leave with pay.
(4) Qualifying employees entitled to leave provided under paragraph (B)(1) of this rule
and who are called or ordered to state active duty for more than a month by a
proclamation of the governor, are eligible for a leave of absence without pay for the
duration of such service in accordance with the requirements stated in this rule.
(5) Federal active duty health insurance coverage. A qualifying employee called to
federal active duty in the uniformed services pursuant to paragraph (B)(3) of this
rule or his or her spouse or dependents may elect to continue or to reactivate the
group health plan coverage for the duration of the time the employee is on active
duty as described in paragraph (B)(3) of this rule. An employee, spouse, or
dependent who requests the continuation or reactivation of insurance must pay any
employee contribution required during the time the employee is on federal active
duty.
(6) State active duty health insurance coverage. A qualifying employee called to state
active duty in the uniformed services or his or her spouse or dependents may extend
university health insurance coverage, as authorized by statute, after coverage would
ordinarily terminate due to the call up (currently eighteen months).
(a) An employee, spouse, or dependent who wishes to extend health insurance
coverage must pay the employee's portion of the insurance premium (UA choice
dollars) during the period of activation, not to exceed eighteen months as
entitled by statute.

 3359-11-05

3

(b) Depending upon mitigating circumstances as set forth in this paragraph, a
qualifying employee called to active duty, or his or her spouse or dependent,
who elects to extend health insurance coverage may further extend coverage as
entitled by statute (currently thirty-six months). Some mitigating circumstances
that would allow the employee to further extend health insurance coverage
include, but are not limited to:
(i) Death of the employee;
(ii) Separation or divorce of the employee and his or her spouse; or
(iii) Cessation of a dependant child's dependency pursuant to the terms of the
insurance contract.
(c) If an employee, his or her spouse, or a dependant elect to extend health insurance
coverage, the continuation of coverage ceases if any of the following events
occur:
(i) The employee, his or her spouse, or a dependant becomes covered by another
group insurance contract, not including the civilian health and medical
program of the uniformed services;
(ii) The continuation period (eighteen or thirty-six months) expires;
(iii) The employee, his or her spouse or a dependant fails to make timely
payments; or
(iv) The group contract is cancelled, unless the contract is replaced by similar
coverage.
(7) Any eligible employee, unless employed briefly with no reasonable expectation of
continued employment, called or ordered to uniformed service will be reinstated to
his or her former or similar position provided the employee makes timely
application for reemployment. An employee is eligible for reemployment if:
(a) The employee gave notice that he or she was leaving to perform military service;
(b) The employee's cumulative military service is less than five years, not including
inactive duty training (drills), annual training, involuntary recall or retention on
active duty, voluntary or involuntary active duty in support of a war or national
emergency, or additional training requirements determined and certified in
writing by the service secretary;
(c) The employee was released from military service under honorable conditions as
specified in the regulations of the respective military branch in which the
employee served; and

 3359-11-05

4

(d) The employee reported back to work within the applicable time.
(i) For service less than thirty-one days, the employee must notify the university
of his or her return not later than the beginning of the first full regularly
scheduled work day on the first full calendar day following the completion
of service and the expiration of eight hours after a period allowing for safe
transportation from the place of service to the employee's residence. The
employee must return to work at a mutually agreed upon date and time, after
notifying the university of his or her return to the area.
(ii) For service more than thirty days, but less than one hundred eighty-one days,
the employee must submit an application for reemployment not later than
fourteen days following the completion of service.
(iii) For service more than one hundred eighty days, the employee must submit
an application for reemployment not later than ninety days following the
completion of service.
(8) For any employee reemployed under this policy whose health insurance has otherwise
terminated, the university will reinstate the employee's health insurance upon
application.
(9) For any employee reemployed under this policy, the university will credit the
employee, for purposes of the Family and Medical Leave Act eligibility, with the
months and hours of service that he or she would have been employed with the
university but for his or her military service.
(C) Any questions regarding this policy should be directed to human resources.
Effective:

01/31/2015

Certification:

____________________________
M. Celeste Cook
Secretary
Board of Trustees

Promulgated Under:

111.15

Statutory Authority:

3359.03; 1751.54; 5923.05; 5923.051

Rule Amplifies:

3359.01

Prior Effective Dates:

09/11/2000, 02/22/2003, 06/25/2007, 01/31/2015

 THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
RESOLUTION 10- -19
Revisions to University Rule 3359-11-05
Court and military leave for all employees except bargaining unit faculty

BE IT RESOLVED, That the recommendation presented by the Rules Committee on
October 9, 2019, to revise Rule 3359-11-05, be approved.

M. Celeste Cook, Secretary
Board of Trustees

October 9, 2019

 3359-20-03.2

Tenured and tenure-track faculty workloadFaculty workload policy.

(A) The university This tenured and tenure-track faculty workload policy is designed to give
directions to colleges and individual units (departments, etc.) in creating their own
workload policies and is based on the philosophy and criteria presented in the report of
the regent's advisory committee on faculty workload standards and guidelines.
(B) Faculty workload.
(1) Three activities, teaching, research/creative activity, and service, make up the tenured
and tenure-track full-time faculty workload. In setting appropriate percentages or
amounts of each activity for a full workload, the need for flexibility is recognized.
Many differences exist between colleges and departments of this university, and
these differences preclude the possibility that a single set of percentages or figures
can be rigidly applied for all. Therefore, the emphasis given to each activity will
depend on the mission of the individual unit. However, the percentage of the unit's
total teaching effort should conform to the following specified ranges according to
mission.
(a) Baccalaureate department: (active four-year undergraduate programs with no, or
limited, activity in graduate programs). In general, the norm for teaching
activities should be seventy to eighty per cent of a total departmental workload,
with the remaining twenty to thirty per cent devoted to other scholarly activities
of research/creative activity and service. Tenured and tenure-track Full-time
faculty should be expected to devote most, if not all, of their teaching effort to
undergraduate instruction.
(b) Baccalaureate/masters departments: (active baccalaureate and masters degree
programs). For academic departments, or equivalents, with active baccalaureate
and masters degree programs, the recommended norm for teaching activities is
sixty to seventy per cent of the total departmental workload with the remaining
thirty to forty percent devoted to research/creative activity, service, and other
professional activities consistent with the department's mission. It should be
expected that tenured and tenure-track full-time faculty in these departments
will devote more of their effort to teaching undergraduates than to graduate level
instruction.
(c) Baccalaureate/masters/doctoral departments: (active baccalaureate, masters, and
doctoral programs). Departments, or equivalent units, with active baccalaureate,

 3359-20-03.2

2

masters, and doctoral programs should have a norm of fifty to sixty per cent of
the total departmental workload devoted to teaching. The remaining forty to
fifty per cent of workload time should be devoted to research/creative activity,
service, and other professional responsibilities that further the goals of the
department and the university. It is expected that tenured and tenure-track
full-time faculty teaching in these departments will be personally involved in
undergraduate instruction. The fact that a department offers a masters or
doctoral degree is not sufficient indication of an active program. In deciding
where a department is located along the continuum from active undergraduate
programs to active research/creative activity and graduate programs,
consideration should be given to the research/creative activity productivity of
the faculty, including externally funded research, and the average number of
graduate and/or professional degrees granted annually. It should be the
responsibility of the dean, in consultation with the senior vice president and
provost and chief operating officer, to determine the appropriate division of
workload expectation for each department, or equivalent unit, in the college
according to the department's level of activity in the degree program it offers.
(d) University two-year or associate degree programs: (active associate degree
programs with no, or little baccalaureate activity) faculty whose principal
appointment is in university associate degree department/program, with no, or
limited, baccalaureate activity, should have undergraduate teaching as their
major responsibility. Such faculty members may also have professional
development and service as part of their workload expectations, as needed to
further the mission of the program and the university. Departments with
associate degree programs should be expected to devote between eighty to
ninety percent of their total workload to teaching related activities, with the
remaining ten to twenty per cent devoted to professional development and
service.
(e) Special cases.
(i) The university recognizes that some programs may not fit into one of the
categories of departments specified in paragraph (B)(1)(a) - (d) of this rule.
In these cases, the appropriate proportion of time to be devoted by the
academic unit to teaching should be determined by the dean or appropriate
academic officer, subject to approval of the senior vice president and
provost and chief operating officer. In these cases, the primary concern
should be for undergraduate teaching activities. For departments or
programs that differ significantly from the above classification, e.g., those
that have graduate programs but no, or few, undergraduate ones, the
appropriate teaching responsibilities for such departments should be

 3359-20-03.2

3

determined by consultation between the department chair and the college
dean or other appropriate academic officer, subject to the approval of the
senior vice president and provost and chief operating officer.
(ii) The university also recognizes that the norms for teaching activities specified
in paragraph (B)(1)(a) - (d) of this rule may require downward adjustment
for departments with unusually heavy service requirements and for
departments that have few tenured and tenure-track faculty members who,
because there are few of them either in absolute numbers or relative to a
large number of non-tenure track faculty members and/or part-time faculty
members, must bear abnormally large service obligations. In these cases,
the appropriate teaching responsibilities should be determined by
consultation between the department chair and the college dean or other
appropriate academic officer, subject to the approval of the senior vice
president and provost and chief operating officer.
(e) Part-time faculty. Part-time faculty includes those persons appointed to carry out
instructional responsibilities dictated by enrollment demand or by special needs
of an academic unit. Because their primary responsibility is teaching, part-time
faculty is not usually expected to engage in other university duties. Like all
faculty they are expected to fulfill all teaching obligations, including meeting all
sessions of assigned classes, preparation for the classes, timely grading and
return to students of assignments and examinations, and maintaining of office
hours or another method of allowing students in their classes to meet with them.
The actual assignment of instructional responsibilities for a part-time faculty
member will be determined by contractual agreement with the university.
(f) Special cases. The university recognizes that all programs may not fit
administratively into one of the above categories of departments. In these cases,
the appropriate proportion of time to be devoted by the academic unit to
teaching should be determined by the dean or appropriate academic officer,
subject to approval of the senior vice president and provost and chief operating
officer. In these cases, the primary concern should be for undergraduate
teaching activities. For departments or programs that differ significantly from
the above classification, e.g., those that have graduate programs but no, or few,
undergraduate ones (for example, polymer science), the appropriate teaching
responsibilities for such departments should be negotiated between the
department chair and the college dean or appropriate academic officer subject to
the approval of the senior vice president and provost and chief operating officer.
(2) Formulation of workload policy.
(a) With the suggested range from the appropriate mission category in mind,
individual units are to formulate a workload policy, paying particular attention
to the following:

 3359-20-03.2

4

(i) Providing quality undergraduate education;
(ii) Establishing a relative balance between teaching, research/creative activity,
and service;
(iii) Establishing accountability in seeing student needs are met; and
(iv) Assuring flexibility in teaching assignments.
(b) The workload policies need to include statements of:
(i) Overall workload expectations to ensure a balance of faculty time and effort
spent in teaching, research/creative activity, and service. Achievement of
this balance for the department (through the assignment of individual
faculty) should be the responsibility of the department chair (or other
appropriate academic officer), subject to review and approval of the dean.
(ii) The types and amounts of instruction needed to accomplish the teaching
mission of the unit. Normally this includes an analysis of the likely number
and types of courses/sections necessary to satisfy the demand for
undergraduate general education, undergraduate major and graduate
programs.
(iii) Overall expectations for research and creative activity by the faculty.
(iv) Overall service contributions expected of the faculty.
(3) General university guidelines.
(a) The concept of load credit represents an attempt to provide a viable method of
quantifying certain kinds of activity that the university expects from each
faculty member on full time appointment. The standard load for all tenured and
tenure-track full-time faculty on nine-month contracts is twenty-four load
credits per academic year and includes load credit for teaching, administrative
responsibility, research/creative activity, instructional support, and service. For
tenured and tenure-track full-time faculty on twelve-month contracts, the
standard load is twenty-four load credits per academic year and six in the
summer. The following policies provide direction for assigning load credit to the
activities of each faculty member:
(b) Teaching in general.
The basic unit for measuring teaching load is the load credit that represents one
fifty-minute period of classroom activity per week for one semester. Load credit
assigned for laboratory activities, discussion, etc., is determined by the dean and
department chair after consultation with the faculty members involved on the

 3359-20-03.2

5

basis of collegiate guidelines approved by the office of the senior vice president
and provost and chief operating officer. The following procedures shall be
followed in establishing class size and determining load credit:
(i) Deans and department chairs, after consultation with the appropriate faculty
members, establish minimum and maximum limits on the size of each class.
Except in unusual circumstances, as determined by the dean, minimum and
maximum limits during the summer are comparable to those in the regular
school year.
(ii) If a regularly scheduled class fails to meet minimum size, the department
chair and dean, in consultation with the faculty member may agree to cancel
the class and reschedule the faculty member for some other appropriate
activity. The class should be cancelled in sufficient time to allow adequate
preparation for alternative activities. If the class is not cancelled, the faculty
member shall receive full load credit according to the regular guidelines for
the type of course.
(iii) Deans and department chairs are responsible for maintaining equity among
faculty in the assignment of large and small classes insofar as faculty
qualifications will allow.
(iv)

When a class substantially exceeds the maximum size for which it is
programmed, the class may be split or the faculty member may be provided
with some kind of extra assistance (e.g. graduate assistant to help grade
papers, extra secretarial help, etc.), or additional load credit could be
granted with approval of the department chair and the dean.

(v) Faculty who teach students who register for independent or individual study,
thesis or dissertation research/creative activity, or reading courses may be
granted load credit by the department chair in consultation with the dean.
(c) Administration.
(i) Administrative load will be determined by the dean in consultation with the
department chair. The amount of credit assigned in each case should be
roughly correlated with the following factors:
(a) Number of faculty, full and part-time;
(b) Number of majors, graduate and undergraduate;
(c) Number and variety of program levels;
(d) Graduate and undergraduate credit hours generated;
(e) Quality of departmental research/creative activity and scholarly and

 3359-20-03.2

6

professional activities;
(f) Number of graduate assistants and the number and variety of
nonprofessional staff to be supervised;
(g) Amount and sophistication of departmental equipment; the extent of
laboratory involvement; and,
(h) Extent of interdepartmental cooperation and coordination required.
(ii) Other part-time administrative assignments may be made on the
recommendation of the faculty, department head, and the academic dean.
Such appointments must be based on an explicit description of job
responsibilities.
(d) Research/creative activity.
Load credit may be granted for scholarly research/creative activity. A written
research/creative activity proposal must be approved by the department chair
and by the dean of the college before load credit is assigned. The department
chair and deans will audit the project at the end of the academic year to
determine whether the accomplishments warrant continuing the load credit.
(e) Instructional support.
With the approval of the dean of the college and the senior vice president and
provost and chief operating officer, load credit may be assigned for special
functions not covered in these guidelines (e.g., counseling and academic
advising of students as a special collegiate and departmental assignment,
developing and preparing new programs and/or relationship to the time
necessary to carry out the assignment and to the importance of the activity to the
department, college, or university).
(f) Service.
Load credit may be granted by the department chair on consultation with the
dean for service in such areas as committees and professional organizations.
(4) Load credit in special situations.
(a) Dividing load among multiple faculty in the same course. When a course is taught
by more than one faculty member, load credit is divided equitably. The faculty
member who is the instructor of record and who is responsible for coordinating
the other instructors' activities will first be assigned an amount of credit
determined in consultation with the department chair and/or dean. The
remainder of the credit will be divided among the other faculty participating as
agreed upon by all involved. This policy does not apply to laboratory courses or

 3359-20-03.2

7

those with many discussion sections; it is designed for so-called team teaching
situations or when more than one faculty member participated in lectures.
(b) Other special situations. Some activities (field experience, student teaching,
supervision, studio courses in art, play directing, coaching, supervising interns,
laboratory supervision, etc.) do not lend themselves to standard university-wide
policies. Load credit for such activities is determined in accordance with
guidelines established by the department chair and the dean of the college after
consultation with the faculty members involved.
(5) Load for summer sessions.
(a) Faculty load. Faculty loads during the summer and interim sessions are
determined by the department chair and dean of the college after consultation
with individual faculty members. In making assignments, such variables as the
number of different courses, (e.g., workshops and institutes) and the experience
of the faculty member are taken into consideration. In addition, some limitations
must be placed on the number of courses and any other responsibilities a faculty
member is expected to carry. The normal load is six credits for one term and
nine load credits for two terms. More than six load credits for one term may be
assigned with the express written approval of the collegiate dean. Credit
assigned to faculty for directing workshops shall equal no more than the number
of credit hours each workshop carries. However, on the written recommendation
of the department chair and dean, a workshop director may be paid an additional
stipend if the time included in designing, organizing, staffing, and teaching the
workshop is considered out of the ordinary. Workshops or institutes offered
between spring semester and summer session I or between the end of summer
session II and fall semester need not be counted as part of the six load credits for
one term, but will be counted toward the total of nine load credits for the entire
summer.
(b) Summer load for administration. Load credit may be assigned for administering
each department/division for the entire summer (summer I and summer II). The
amount of each allocation is determined by the volume of activity in each
department during each summer session. These credits need not be assigned to
department chairs per se, but shall be allocated in a manner approved by the
collegiate dean. Faculty members are expected to be available in the office a
reasonable amount of time each day of the period for which they are awarded
the load credit. Load credit for other administrative responsibilities may be
assigned by the dean of the college.
(c) Other activities. Any load assigned of, remuneration given for activities which are
carried out primarily for programs or activities which occur during the regular
school year must be budgeted in the department's academic year budget.
(6) Procedural guidelines.

 3359-20-03.2

8

(a) All activities outlined above are counted as part of the load for any semester and
are included on the faculty academic activity report.
(b) Overload calculations based on the prescribed conditions are made in the spring
semester and involves only load credits for the academic year with no carry over
into the summer.
(c) Academic activity report forms are prepared by or under the supervision of the
department chair to assure consistency in application of the guidelines.
(d) Load for a course cannot be assigned both to a graduate assistant and to a faculty
member. If the graduate assistant actually teaches the class or supervises the
laboratory, then the faculty member may not receive load credit.
(e) When faculty members are on joint appointment or teach courses outside their
home departments, the chair of the home department or department of primary
appointment is responsible for completing the academic activity report and
includes on the report all activity performed outside the department.
(f) Any questions relating to the assignment of load credit should be discussed first
with the department chair, and if necessary or desirable, with the appropriate
collegiate dean.
Effective:

01/31/2015

Certification:

________________________________
M. Celeste Cook
Secretary
Board of Trustees

Promulgated Under:

111.15

Statutory Authority:

3359

Rule Amplifies:

3359

Prior Effective Dates:

11/13/1997, 06/25/2007, 01/31/2015

 THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
RESOLUTION 10- -19
Revisions to University Rule 3359-20-03.2
Faculty workload policy

BE IT RESOLVED, That the recommendation presented by the Rules Committee on
October 9, 2019, to revise Rule 3359-20-03.2, be approved.

M. Celeste Cook, Secretary
Board of Trustees

October 9, 2019

 3359-60-07

School of law admission.

(A) Admission. Admission to all law school degree and certificate programs is at the
discretion of the faculty and dean of the school of law. Admission decisions ordinarily
will be made by an admissions committee or select members of the admissions
committee designated by the whole committee or the dean, or by the dean in consultation
with the committee. Prior to the beginning of each academic year, the dean assigns
selected faculty members to serve on the admissions committee.
For all programs and certificates, the school of law admissions committee seeks students
who will perform successfully in law school, enhance the environment of the school of
law and ultimately use their legal education to benefit society. Thus, the committee
strives to assemble a student body that is academically well prepared, highly motivated
and diverse. Although an applicant's undergraduate grade point average (GPA) and score
from the law school admission test (LSAT) or the graduate record examination (GRE)
are important indicators of academic preparation and motivation, the admissions
committee considers other factors as well. These other considerations include, but are
not limited to: the nature and difficulty of the applicant's course of undergraduate study;
ascending or descending grade trends; graduate work or degrees; extracurricular
activities while in undergraduate or graduate school; the LSAT or GRE writing sample;
work experience; community activities; achievements; personal obstacles that may have
hindered realization of the applicant's full potential; recommendation letters; and the
applicant's personal statement.
The university of Akron school of law is an equal educational institution. In assessing an
applicant's academic promise, the admissions committee considers the extent to which
the applicant has overcome disadvantages associated with obstacles in life, including
membership in a historically disadvantaged racial or ethnic group. Committee members
seek to recruit and enroll minority students.
The admissions committee begins to review applications as early as September for
admission into the next spring, summer or fall entering class. Applications are reviewed
and admission decisions are made on a continuing (rolling) basis. Applicants should
therefore submit completed applications as early as possible.
Applicants may receive additional information by visiting the university of Akron school
of law website and by reading admission publications. The most up-to-date information
on admission requirements will be included on the law school website.
(B) General requirements and procedures for admission.
(1) A baccalaureate degree from a regionally accredited four-year college or university
(or the international equivalent) must be conferred prior to law school matriculation.

 3359-60-07

2

(2) Test scores from the LSAT OR GRE. Test scores older than five years ordinarily
will not be considered.
(3) All applicants must register for and submit applications and supporting documents
through the law school admissions council (LSAC) by the deadlines stated on the
school of law website.
(4) A complete application consists of the following:
(a) Registration with the LSAC credential assembly service (CAS).
(b) Completion of the LSAT or GRE.
(c) Submission of an electronic application through LSAC.
(d) Submission of transcripts to LSAC for processing.
(e) Submission of optional letters of recommendation to LSAC for processing.
(5) International applicants for whom English is not their first language must take the
test of English as a foreign language (TOEFL) or international English language
testing system (IELTS) exam before their applications may be considered for
admission. On a rare occasion and in the sole discretion of the admissions
committee, the TOEFL/IELTS requirement may be waived if (i) the applicant has a
college degree from an institution in which the primary language of instruction was
English, or (ii) the applicant can show other circumstances demonstrating
proficiency in English.
(6) Letters of recommendation are optional, but strongly suggested.
(7) Students who are admitted to the school of law are required to pay a non-refundable
seat deposit by the stated deadline. Admitted applicants receive additional details in
the admit packet distributed to all students shortly after they are admitted.
(8) By the date stated on the admissions website, students who intend to enroll must
arrange to send to the school of law a final, official transcript from each academic
institution attended by the student.
(C) Orientation. All entering students are required to attend various orientation courses and
activities. Details will be provided to admitted students after they are admitted.

 3359-60-07

3

Effective:

01/31/2015

Certification:

_______________________________
M. Celeste Cook
Secretary
Board of Trustees

Promulgated Under:

111.15

Statutory Authority:

3359

Rule Amplifies:

3359

Prior Effective Dates:

Prior to 11/04/1977, 08/30/1979, 01/30/1981,
12/31/1986, 05/22/1991, 11/24/2001 (Replaced
3359-60-07), 11/24/2001(Replaced 3359-60-07.1),
11/24/2001 (Replaced 3359-60-07.2), 01/31/2015

 3359-60-07

School of law admission.

(A) Admission. Admission to all law school degree and certificate programs is at the
discretion of the faculty and dean of the school of law. Admission decisions ordinarily
will be made by an admissions committee or select members of the admissions committee
designated by the whole committee or the dean, or by the dean in consultation with the
committee. Prior to the beginning of each academic year, the dean assigns selected
faculty members to serve on the admissions committee.
For all programs and certificates, the The school of law admissions committee seeks
students who will perform successfully in law school, enhance the environment of the
school of law and ultimately use their legal education to benefit society. Thus, the
committee strives to assemble a student body that is academically well prepared, highly
motivated and diverse. Although an applicant's undergraduate grade point average
(GPA) and score from the law school admission test (LSAT) score or the graduate
record examination (GRE) are important indicators of academic preparation and
motivation, the admissions committee considers other factors as well. such as These
other considerations include, but are not limited to: the nature and difficulty of the
applicant's course of undergraduate study; Other considerations include, but are not
limited to, the applicant's undergraduate academic record, ascending or descending grade
trends,; graduate work or degrees, ; and extracurricular activities while in undergraduate
or graduate school.; The the LSAT or GRE writing sample, work experience, ;
community activities, ; achievements, ; personal obstacles that may have hindered
realization of the applicant's full potential, ; recommendation letters, ; and the applicant's
personal statement.
The university of Akron school of law is an equal educational institution. In assessing an
applicant's academic promise, the admissions committee considers the extent to which
the applicant has overcome disadvantages associated with obstacles in life, including
membership in a historically disadvantaged racial or ethnic group. Committee members
seek to recruit and enroll minority students.
Decisions are the responsibility of the The admissions committee. The committee begins
to review applications as early as September or October for admission into the next fall's
spring, summer or fall entering class. Applications are reviewed and admission decisions
are made on a continuing (rolling) basis. Applicants should therefore submit completed
applications as early as possible.
Applicants may receive additional information by visiting the university of Akron school
of law website at www.uakron.edu/law and by reading admission publications. The
most up-to-date information on admission requirements will be included on the law
school website.
(B) Applying for admission as a new law student:

 3359-60-07

2

(1) Requirements:
(BC) General requirements and procedures for admission.
(1) A baccalaureate degree from a regionally accredited four-year college or university
(or the international equivalent) must be conferred prior to law school matriculation.
Any major will be considered for admission. The study of a specific subject is less
important than an in-depth pursuit of one’s own areas of academic interest. A
prospective law student should be able to gather, organize and evaluate facts, to
think creatively to solve problems, to write well and communicate effectively, and to
understand people and institutions.
(i) All applicants must take the LSAT. An application will be accepted before an
applicant takes the LSAT. However, a decision will not be made on the file
until the LSAT score has been received. An applicant dissatisfied with the
LSAT score may take the test again. Multiple scores will be averaged.
LSAT scores older than three years may not be considered for admission.
(ii) Applicants must also register for the law school data assembly service
(LSDAS). The LSDAS provides a report to The university of Akron
profiling the applicant’s undergraduate academic summary, copies of all the
applicant’s undergraduate and graduate transcripts, LSAT score, and writing
sample. Applicants may register for the LSAT and the LSDAS at
www.lsac.org.
(b) Each applicant is required to submit the following materials in order to be
considered for admission:
(i) Application
(ii) Thirty-five dollar application fee if the application is not received
electronically
(iii) Personal statement
(iv) LSDAS report
(2) Test scores from the LSAT or GRE. Test scores older than five years ordinarily will
not be considered.
(3) All applicants must register for and submit applications and supporting documents
through the law school admissions council (LSAC) by the deadlines stated on the
school of law website.
(4) A complete application consists of the following:
(a) Registration with the LSAC credential assembly service (CAS).

 3359-60-07

3

(b) Completion of the LSAT or GRE.
(c) Submission of an electronic application through LSAC.
(d) Submission of transcripts to LSAC for processing.
(e) Submission of optional letters of recommendation to LSAC for processing.
(c) International applicants who learned English as second language must submit a
test of English as a foreign language (TOEFL) and test of spoken English (TSE)
before their applications may be considered for admission. Exceptions may be
made for students who completed all of the coursework for a baccalaureate or
graduate degree at an accredited U.S. college or university. Applicants who
earned a baccalaureate degree from a college or university outside the U.S. are
not required to register for the LSDAS.
(5) International applicants for whom English is not their first language must take the
test of English as a foreign language (TOEFL) or international English language
testing system (IELTS) exam before their applications may be considered for
admission. On a rare occasion and in the sole discretion of the admissions
committee, the TOEFL/IELTS requirement may be waived if (i) the applicant has a
college degree from an institution in which the primary language of instruction was
english, or (ii) the applicant can show other circumstances demonstrating
proficiency in English.
(6)

(d) Letters of recommendation are optional, but strongly suggested.
Recommendation letters relating to academic performance, extracurricular activities
or employment are very helpful to the admissions committee. The letters may be
from instructors, employers, colleagues, or others.

(7)

Students who are admitted to the school of law are required to pay a nonrefundable seat deposit by the stated deadline. Admitted applicants receive
additional details in the admit packet distributed to all students shortly after they are
admitted.

(8) By the date stated on the admissions website, students who intend to enroll must
arrange to send to the school of law a final, official transcript from each academic
institution attended by the student.
(C) Orientation. All entering students are required to attend various orientation courses and
activities. Details will be provided to admitted students after they are admitted.
(C) Types of decisions:
(1) Admit: A student is admitted to the full-time, day or the part-time, evening division.
After admission, a student may request transfer to the other division. An admission
is for the fall semester only.

 3359-60-07

4

(2) Defer: Borderline applicant files are often placed in a deferred category. Deferred
candidates are admitted or denied from February through early August.
(3) Deny: An applicant is notified that he/she has not been admitted, but only after the
admissions committee has carefully reviewed all of the applicant's credentials and
has determined in its best judgment that the applicant is not competitive with that
year's pool of applicants. The applicant may reapply for the following year.
However, it is strongly recommended that the applicant take steps to enhance his/her
file, such as retaking the LSAT or enrolling in and excelling in graduate level
courses.
(D) Reapplication:
A person who previously applied to the school of law but did not attend, whether
accepted or denied, must reapply. The LSAT need not be repeated if taken within the
preceding three years. However, an applicant may wish to retake the LSAT, depending
on the test score. If the applicant does not retake the LSAT, the school of law will use an
existing LSAT/LSDAS report if one is still on file. Previous applications are maintained
for three years. If a previous LSAT/LSDAS report is not in our files, the person must
apply to LSDAS and submit all undergraduate and graduate transcripts to law services.
If the LSAT is retaken, the applicant also must reapply to LSDAS and resubmit all
undergraduate and graduate transcripts to LSDAS.
(E) Enrollment procedures:
Two seat deposits are required. Admitted applicants receive additional details in the new
law student handbook regarding amounts and refunds.
After admission and before the first day of classes, a student must arrange to send to the
school of law two final, official transcripts from each academic institution attended by
the student. The transcripts must contain the institution's seal, the registrar's signature
and confirmation that a baccalaureate or higher degree was awarded, as appropriate. A
certificate of completion of degree requirements may be submitted if a student has
successfully completed baccalaureate degree requirements during the summer and the
degree will be awarded after the beginning of the fall semester. An authorized official of
the institution awarding the baccalaureate degree, such as the registrar, must supply the
certificate. At the earliest possible date, the student must arrange for submission of two
official transcripts verifying award of the degree to the school of law.
(F) Orientation:
A required orientation class for beginning law students is held during the week before
fall classes begin. This class in “Introduction to Law and Legal Systems” covers such
topics such as outlining, briefing, preparing for class, ethics, an overview of the legal
system, and much more. This one credit hour class is required and will count toward the
graduation credit hour requirements. In addition, it provides students with a smoother

 3359-60-07

5

transition into the study of law.
(G) Applying for admission as a transfer (advanced standing) law student:
A law student who has completed not more nor less than one year (approximately 30
semester credit hours) at an ABA-accredited law school and is in good academic
standing may apply for transfer. An admission decision cannot be made until the
following documents are received:
(1) Application
(2) Cover letter explaining the reasons for transfer
(3) Thirty-five dollar application fee if the application is not received electronically
(4) An original, official law school transcript reflecting all grades earned
(5) A letter from the law school dean or associate dean confirming that the student is in
good academic standing, eligible to continue and was not subject to disciplinary
action
(6) A photocopy of the top page of the LSDAS report
(7) A photocopy of class outlines/syllabi for all law school classes
(8) Optional: Letters of recommendation from law faculty members addressing classroom
performance, writing skills, oral presentations, etc.
Transfer applications are usually received in May, June and July. Admission
decisions are usually made in July, as the above requested materials are often not
available until that time. The associate dean of the school of law will determine
credit given for prior law schoolwork.
(H) Applying for admission as a transient (visiting) law student:
A law student who is currently enrolled at another ABA-accredited law school may
apply for transient status for one or more semesters. Transient students are permitted to
enroll in courses approved by the dean of their law school, provided that space is
available.
An admission decision cannot be made until the following documents are received:
(1) Application
(2) Cover letter explaining the reasons for visiting status
(3) Thirty-five dollar application fee if the application was not received electronically
(4) An original, official law school transcript reflecting all grades earned

 3359-60-07

6

(5) A letter from the law school dean or associate dean confirming that the student is in
good academic standing, eligible to continue and has permission to enroll in classes
at the university of Akron school of law
(6) A photocopy of the top page of the LSDAS report (this may be obtained from the law
school registrar and included with the dean's letter)
Admission decisions are made shortly after the above materials have been received.
(I) Applying for admission as an audit (guest) law student:
The following individuals may be considered for admission as an audit student:
(1) An attorney or law school graduate may apply for audit status. The following
materials must be received before the application may be considered for audit
admission:
(a) Application form
(b) Thirty-five dollar fee if the application is not filed electronically
(c) Official law school transcript reflecting conferral of the J.D. degree
(d) Copy of the bar registration card (for attorneys)
(e) Cover letter
(2) A student enrolled in a graduate program may apply for audit status. The following
materials must be received before the application may be considered for audit
admission:
(a) Application form
(b) Thirty-five dollar fee if the application is not filed electronically
(c) Official graduate school transcript
(d) Cover letter
(e) Letter from dean or department head granting permission for the student to
transfer coursework from the university of Akron school of law to apply toward
the student’s graduate degree
(J) Joint degree programs:
The following four joint degree programs are available in conjunction with the college
of business administration and the department of public administration.
Juris doctor/master in business administration

 3359-60-07

7

Juris doctor/master in human resources
Juris doctor/master in taxation
Juris doctor/master in public administration
Approved graduate level courses may transfer to the juris doctor degree for courses that
are taken while the student is enrolled in the school of law.
To pursue a joint degree program, the student must be admitted to the school of law and
the graduate school for the college of business administration or the department of
public administration. The student should contact each department for information
concerning criteria and procedures. Individuals with baccalaureate degrees in any field
of study are eligible to apply.
Effective:

01/31/2015

Certification:

_______________________________
M. Celeste Cook
Secretary
Board of Trustees

Promulgated Under:

111.15

Statutory Authority:

3359

Rule Amplifies:

3359

Prior Effective Dates:

Prior to 11/04/1977, 08/30/1979, 01/30/1981,
12/31/1986, 05/22/1991, 11/24/2001 (Replaced
3359-60-07), 11/24/2001(Replaced 3359-60-07.1),
11/24/2001 (Replaced 3359-60-07.2), 01/31/2015

 THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
RESOLUTION 10- -19
Revisions to University Rule 3359-60-07
School of law admission

BE IT RESOLVED, That the recommendation presented by the Rules Committee on
October 9, 2019, to revise Rule 3359-60-07, be approved.

M. Celeste Cook, Secretary
Board of Trustees

October 9, 2019

 Item

Description

Consent Agenda
The University of Akron Board of Trustees
Meeting of October 9, 2019
Committee

Tab

1

Minutes for August 14; September 3; and
September 23, 2019

None

Board of
Trustees

2

Investment Report for the Fiscal Year Ended
June 30, 2019

Finance & Admin.

2

3

Financial Report for the Fiscal Year Ended
June 30, 2019

Finance & Admin.

3

4

Procurements for More Than $500,000

Finance & Admin.

4

5

Disposition of the Former Ballet Center

Finance & Admin.

5a

6

Exchange of 503 Vine Street for 496-502 Vine
Street

Finance & Admin.

5b

Finance & Admin.

6

Finance & Admin.

7

8

Pre-authorization to Select an Outsourced Chief
Investment Officer (OCIO)
Administrative and Fiduciary Oversight of Defined
Contribution Plans Sponsored by The University of
Akron

9

Naming of The Dr. Florence L. Denmark Gallery of
Social Change

Finance & Admin

8a

10

Naming of The Lynn Rodeman Metzger Galleries

Finance & Admin

8b

11

Cumulative Gift and Grant Income Report for July 1
through August 31, 2019

Finance & Admin.

9

12

Proposed Curricular Change

Academic Issues &
Student Success

1

13

Revisions to Rule 3359-11-05, Court and military
leave for all employees except bargaining unit faculty Rules

1

14

Revisions to Rule 3359-60-07, School of Law
admission

3

7

1

Rules

 1

Approval of Presidential Employment Agreement for
Dr. Gary L. Miller

2

Authorizing the Reorganization of the Office of
Academic Affairs and Establishing the Position of
Executive Vice President and Provost

3

Authorizing Dr. Miller to Develop a University-wide
Strategic Plan

Presiding:
Chair
Joseph M. Gingo
October 9, 2019

4

6
7
8
9
10
11
12

New Business

5

 THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
RESOLUTION 10- -19
Approval of Presidential Employment Agreement for Dr. Gary L. Miller

WHEREAS, The University of Akron’s Board of Trustees approved Resolution 8-17-19
on August 14, 2019, thereby appointing Dr. Gary L. Miller as the 18th President of The University
of Akron, effective October 1, 2019; and
WHEREAS, The terms of Dr. Miller’s employment were set forth in a Term Sheet dated
August 14, 2019, with the understanding that a more fully developed Employment Agreement
would follow for the Board’s formal approval; and
WHEREAS, A Presidential Employment Agreement consistent with the Term Sheet has
been negotiated successfully by both parties to the agreement, and is attached to this document as
Exhibit A; Now, therefore,
BE IT RESOLVED, That The University of Akron’s Board of Trustees formally approves
the attached Presidential Employment Agreement between the University and Dr. Gary L. Miller.

M. Celeste Cook, Secretary
Board of Trustees

October 9, 2019

 EXHIBIT A

THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
PRESIDENT’S EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
This President’s Employment Agreement (the “Agreement”) is made between the BOARD OF TRUSTEES
OF THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON, 302 East Buchtel Common, Akron, Ohio 44325 ("Board"), and DR. GARY
L. MILLER ("President" or "Dr. Miller"), effective the 1st day of October, 2019 (the “Effective Date”). The
University and the President may be referred to hereinafter as a “Party” and collectively as the “Parties”.
RECITALS
WHEREAS, the Board wishes to employ Dr. Miller as President of The University of Akron (the
“University”) and Dr. Miller wishes to serve as President and be its employee, subject to the terms of this
Agreement and applicable law;
WHEREAS, both the Board and the President desire to set forth their respective rights and obligations
in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS, this Agreement has been duly approved and its execution has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Board at the meeting of the Board held on October 9, 2019.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the covenants and agreements set forth herein, the adequacy
and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the President and the Board agree as follows:
1. Appointment and Term. The Board appoints and employs Dr. Miller to serve as the President of
the University for a term beginning October 1, 2019 and ending September 30, 2024 (the “Term”).
Dr. Miller is employed to serve as the chief executive officer of the University under the policies,
rules, supervision, direction and discretion of its Board and the Board’s Executive Officers, and
consistent with all applicable law. The President hereby accepts and agrees to such appointment
as of such date. The Term may be extended by mutual written agreement of the parties.
2. Powers and Duties. The President shall perform all duties in accordance with federal, state and
local law, the terms of this Agreement, and the Rules of the Board, as amended from time-totime. The President shall perform those services and duties that are inherent to the Office of the
President, as the chief executive officer of the University, including, without limitation, the duties
set forth in the Rules of the Board and other actions of the Board (collectively, the “Duties”). The
President shall devote his full-time, attention, skill, and efforts to the faithful performance of the
Duties for the University, except as set forth in Section 8 of this Agreement (“Outside Activities”).
The President and the Board acknowledge and agree that the Duties hereunder shall be to
supervise the entire program of activities of the University and shall be consistent with those
customarily performed by presidents of colleges and universities comparable in size and type to
the University, including, without limitation:

1

 a.
b.
c.
d.
e.
f.
g.

institutional, faculty, and educational leadership and management;
fostering positive external relationships with federal, state, and local government;
fundraising, development, public, and alumni relations;
long range and strategic planning, and budget formulation;
recruitment, appointment, promotion and dismissal of faculty and staff members;
student recruitment and services; and
such other duties as may be mutually agreed upon by the President and the Board or assigned
to the President by the Board.

The President also serves as an ex-officio member of The University of Akron Foundation Board
of Directors and as a member of The University of Akron Research Foundation Board of Directors.
Should the President’s employment with the University cease for any reason, the President’s
service as a member of these Boards also will cease.
The Board expects the President to develop and maintain personal relationships with alumni,
donors, and potential donors as part of his fundraising, development, and alumni relations duties.
Such efforts may require the President to be a guest in the homes of alumni, donors and potential
donors and will require the President to participate in social and recreational activities with these
individuals. The Board believes that such relationships are critical to the University’s fundraising,
development, and alumni relations efforts and expects the President to participate in such
activities.
3. Compensation.
a. Annual Base Salary. As compensation for the services to be performed by the President
pursuant to this Agreement, the University shall pay the President an annual base salary of
$475,000.00, (the “Base Salary”), less applicable deductions, in equal monthly installments.
All compensation received by the President will be subject to applicable tax laws and, if
appropriate, will be treated as taxable income subject to applicable withholding and other
payroll taxes. During the Term of this Agreement, the President’s Base Salary may be
increased, but not decreased. Any increases in the Base Salary shall be within the Board's sole
discretion and shall be based upon the President’s performance during the previous twelve
months in connection with the annual evaluation of the President’s performance, as set forth
in Section 4 of this Agreement.
b. Internal Revenue Code §457(f) Plans. The University shall establish and maintain for the
benefit of the President a non-qualified deferred compensation plan under Section 457(f) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the guidance thereunder (the “457(f)
Plan”). (For purposes of this Agreement, the “Code” shall refer to the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended, and the guidance thereunder.) The University shall credit this Plan with
$25,000.00 during each year of the Agreement, provided that the President has remained
continuously employed by the University through the end of such year. All accrued deferred
compensation that the University has credited to the 457(f) shall become fully vested and
payable to the President in a single lump sum payment upon completion of the Term;
provided however, should the President be unable to complete the Term due to his death,
permanent disability (as defined by Section 409(a)(2)(C) of the Code), or termination without
Cause by the University (pursuant to Section 7(b) of the Agreement) all credits made to the
Account shall be deemed to vest. If the President is terminated for cause (pursuant to Section

2

 7(a) of the Agreement) or voluntarily resigns from employment (pursuant to Section 7(c) of
the Agreement), the President shall not receive any accrued deferred compensation under
this Plan. Any other terms and conditions of the Plan shall be set forth in a document separate
and apart from this Agreement but shall include a substantial risk of forfeiture provision. Both
parties acknowledge that future guidance issued by the Internal Revenue. Service with respect
to Section 409A of the Code or Section 457(f) of the Code may necessitate an amendment of
this Section 3(b) and the parties mutually agree to amend this Section 3(b) to comply with
such guidance.
c. State Appropriation. Payment under this Agreement is subject to appropriation of funds by
the Ohio Legislature and to the determination of the adequacy of such funds for that purpose
by the Board. However, the Parties agree and understand that funding for the University
comes from several sources other than appropriations by the state of Ohio. It is not the intent
of the Board to use any reduction in appropriations as a reason to reduce compensation under
this Agreement if other funds are available for such use.
4. Annual Evaluation. On or before July 1 of each year, the President shall provide to the Chair of
the Board (the “Chair”) proposed goals and objectives for the year period beginning on September
1st. The Board or its designee (referred to in this Section 4 as the “Board”) and the President shall
discuss the President’s goals and objectives, after which time the Board and the President shall
agree upon goals and objectives for the year period. On or before July 1 of each year, the
President shall initiate the evaluation process for the period that began on September 1 of the
previous calendar year by submitting to the Board a self-appraisal of said period's performance.
This appraisal shall address the President’s performance related to each of the goals and
objectives determined the preceding September. After the President has provided this selfappraisal, the Board shall evaluate the President’s performance during the previous academic year
based on the President’s achievement of the mutually agreed upon specified goals and objectives
and such other criteria as the Board deems appropriate. To aid the Board in its annual evaluation,
the President agrees to furnish to the Board such oral or written reports as it may request.
5. Benefits and Reimbursements. During the Term of this Agreement, the University
shall provide the President with the following benefits and reimbursements:
a. Standard Benefits. The President shall be a member of the administrative faculty with rank,
untenured, of the University. The President shall be eligible to participate in such University
benefits as are generally available to full-time faculty and contract professionals, subject to
eligibility requirements, terms, and costs as are applicable, including: (i) health care insurance
(dental, medical, prescription, and vision), term life insurance coverage and disability
insurance in accordance with the University’s employer-provided plans applicable to faculty
and contract professionals; (ii) worker’s compensation coverage; (iii) an annual physical
examination for the President, which will be provided by the University at no cost, at a
mutually agreeable facility, with results made available to the Chair of the Board; (iv) twentytwo (22) vacation days and fifteen (15) sick leave days per year, which may be accrued and
are administered in accordance with the Rules of the Board and University policies; and (v)
tuition remission, consistent with the University’s policies.

3

 b. Supplemental Retirement Plans. As part of the employee benefits package, the President
shall be eligible for retirement benefits under the applicable Ohio public retirement system
or Alternative Retirement Plan (the “ARP”), based on the employee’s election and as
permitted by law. The University will make all required employer retirement contributions to
the applicable retirement plan or ARP, based on the President’s election. The President also
will have the opportunity to participate in the University’s supplemental retirement plans,
subject to sections 403(b) and 457(b) of the Code.
c. Additional Insurance Opportunities. In addition to the group life insurance provided by
Section 5(a), the President shall have the opportunity to participate in such other, optional
insurance programs that are provided by the University to its employees.
d. Automobile. During the Term of the Agreement, the University shall provide the President
with an automobile allowance in the amount of $750.00 per month. Any automobile
expenses beyond the amount of the allowance as well as any liability, collision, and
comprehensive insurance and any additional operating expenses shall be the responsibility of
the President.
e. Housing. During the Term of the Agreement, the University shall provide the President a
stipend of $3,500.00 per month to be applied toward housing. Any housing expense balance,
as well as any liability and comprehensive insurance and all additional operation expenses
associated with said housing, including all repairs, shall be procured and borne by the
President. It is expected that the President shall, from time-to-time, utilize facilities on
the main campus or elsewhere, including the President’s residence, to (1) entertain
various individuals, including but not limited to dignitaries, community leaders, faculty
and other employee groups, students, friends of the University, and political leaders; and
(2) to hold receptions, meetings, conduct fund-raising activities and a variety of events
for mixed business and social purposes benefiting the interests of the University. In such
instances, reasonable cooking, catering, and housekeeping services shall be provided to,
or reimbursed by the University at the President's request.
f.

Travel, Entertainment, and Other Business Expenses. The President and his spouse are
expected to travel on behalf of the University. Appropriate business class air travel for
international flights and for flights scheduled for longer than 4 hours will be provided for the
purposes of such travel. Other reasonable travel and other business expenses incurred by the
President and his spouse in connection with University business (including mileage) shall be
paid for or reimbursed in accordance with the University’s travel and hosting policies. The
University will establish an annual budget for entertainment and travel based on the needs of
the President’s responsibilities. If the President requests his spouse to utilize her skills and
talents in connection with a University related activity and for the direct benefit of the
University, such efforts will be on a voluntary, unpaid basis; however, expenses incurred in
connection with such University related activity by the President’s spouse shall be reimbursed
in accordance with University policy.

4

 g. Club Membership. The Board will provide the President, at the University's expense, with a
family membership at one mutually agreed upon country club in the name of (or on behalf
of) the University and shall pay monthly dues and expenses as provided under Board rules.
The parties acknowledge and agree that based upon substantiation of information to be
provided by the President, the University shall include in the President's compensation for
income tax purposes only the value attributable to the President's non-business (i.e. personal)
uses of such club. The President agrees to maintain and furnish an accounting of expenses
provided for in this Agreement in accord with standard requirements of the University.
h. Working Facilities. The President shall be provided with a private office, reasonable staffing,
entertainment budget (consistent with Section 5(f) of this Agreement), and other resources
necessary for the operation of the Office of the President and to carry out the University’s
development objectives as determined by the Board. The University also will provide the
President with necessary equipment and support (i.e. computer, printer, mobile telephone,
etc.) to operate an office at the President’s personal residence. In addition, the President’s
spouse will be supplied with reasonable and necessary computing equipment and support to
facilitate her participation in events and activities for the benefit of the University. Such
equipment shall remain the property of the University.
i.

Transition, Moving, and Relocation Expenses. The University will reimburse the President
for reasonable moving and relocation expenses up to an amount of $36,000.00, such
reimbursement to be consistent with the University’s policies concerning moving expenses.
The President must obtain estimates from two national moving companies and will be
reimbursed at the lower estimate unless otherwise agreed to in writing in advance by the
Chair of the Board. Moving and relocation expenses are eligible for reimbursement if incurred
within twelve (12) months of the Effective Date.

j.

Professional Development. The University will pay for, or reimburse the President, as
applicable and in accordance with University policies, for membership in professional
organizations, as well as for attendance and participation in professional development
meetings and conferences.

k. Compliance with Section 409A of the Code. The University shall make the reimbursements
under Section 5 of this Agreement in a manner that is compliant with Section 409A of the
Code. As such, the amount of expenses reimbursed during one taxable year shall not affect
the amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement in any other taxable year. Any
reimbursement of expenses typically will occur within thirty (30) days from the submission of
a fully completed reimbursement request, but in no event shall reimbursement be made after
the last day of the taxable year following the year in which the expense was incurred. The
right to reimbursement of expenses shall not be subject to liquidation or exchange for another
benefit.
6. Tax Reporting. The University shall include in the W-2 issued to the President all payments,
benefits, allowances, and reimbursements that are defined as income or otherwise required to
be reported by federal, state, or local governments. Except as provided in this Agreement, the
President shall be responsible for the payment of all personal taxes due and shall make such
payments on a "when due" basis.

5

 7. Termination.
a. Termination For Cause. The University may terminate this Agreement at any time, for cause,
upon written notice to the President. For purposes of this Agreement, "Cause" shall mean:
i.

ii.
iii.
iv.
v.
vi.
vii.

conduct, whether occurring prior to or during the Term of this Agreement, that in the
reasonable judgment of the Board is contrary to the best interests of, or prejudicial to the
University and is also either (a) a substantial deviation from the expected character or
behavior of a person occupying the position of a university president or (b) a serious
violation of law;
willful neglect of duty, including the President’s prolonged absence from work without
the Board’s consent (except such absence that is attributable to illness or disability or
approved leave);
gross negligence or willful malfeasance by the President in the performance of the
President’s duties;
actions or omissions by the President that are undertaken, or omitted knowingly, that
represent a material breach of the University’s policies, rules, or procedures;
actions or omissions by the President that are criminal or fraudulent, or that involve
dishonesty or moral turpitude;
any indictment, conviction, plea of guilty, “no contest” or “Alford” to a felony; or
any material breach of this Agreement.

In the event the President is terminated for Cause, the President’s employment shall cease
immediately, and the President shall not be entitled to any further compensation or benefits as
President, except as set forth in the University's various benefit plans with respect to vesting
and rights after termination of employment.
b. Termination Without Cause. The University may terminate this Agreement without Cause at
any time for the convenience of the University upon ninety (90) days prior written notice to
the President. Termination of this Agreement by virtue of the President’s Permanent
Disability or death (as set forth in Sections 7(d) and 7(e) of this Agreement, respectively) shall
not be construed' as termination without Cause. If the University terminates this Agreement
without Cause prior to the expiration of the Term, the President shall be entitled to receive
payments equal to the President’s then-Base Salary and health benefits (dental, medical,
prescription, and vision) for one (1) year from the date of termination. The President shall not
be entitled to any further compensation or benefits as President, except as set forth in the
University's various benefit plans, including the 457(f) Plan, with respect to vesting and rights.
No payments shall be made under this Section 7(b) unless the President provides to the
University, and does not revoke, a general release of claims in a form satisfactory to the
University. For purposes of this Agreement, any reference to the President’s termination of
employment will be interpreted in a manner consistent with the definition of “separation
from service” under Section 409A of the Code and with the definition of “severance from
employment” under Code Section 457(f).

6

 c. Resignation. The President may resign from the Presidency by providing at least nine (9)
months prior written notice to the Board. The President’s employment as President shall
cease on the effective date of resignation, and the President shall not be entitled to any
further compensation or benefits as President, except as set forth in the University's various
benefit plans with respect to vesting and rights after termination of employment. The
President acknowledges and agrees that if he resigns prior to the completion of his Term, he
forfeits all rights to any deferred compensation under Section 3(b) of this Agreement.
In addition to the foregoing, should the President resign: (i) less than three (3) calendar years
from the Effective Date or with less than nine (9) months advance notice to the Board, the
President shall pay to the University as liquidated damages, and not as a penalty, seventy-five
percent (75%) of his initial Base Salary. Such payment will be due to the University within
sixty (60) days of the President’s final day in office. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the
President resigns following the failure of the state of Ohio to appropriate the necessary funds
for his salary, as contemplated in Section (3)(c), the University will not assess liquidated
damages.
d. Permanent Disability. If the President shall become permanently disabled during his service
as President, this Agreement shall terminate effective on the date of permanent disability and
the President shall receive all benefits to which the President is entitled pursuant to the
University's disability insurance plan in which the President participates, as set forth in Section
5(a) as well as the benefits provided by the 457(f) Plan. For purposes of this Agreement,
"Permanent Disability" shall be defined by Section 409(a)(2)(C) of the Code.
The President understands that he is considered a key employee under FMLA regulations. A
“key employee” is a salaried, FMLA-eligible employee who is among the highest paid ten (10)
percent of all the employees employed by the employer within seventy-five (75) miles of the
employee’s worksite. Under certain circumstances, the President may be denied restoration
of his job if doing so would result in “substantial and grievous injury” to the University, as
reasonably determined by the Board in its sole discretion.
e. Death. In the event of the President’s death during the Term of this Agreement, the
President’s Base Salary shall cease immediately and this Agreement shall terminate effective
on the date of death. The President’s designated beneficiary shall be entitled to receive all
benefits to which the President is entitled under the University's various insurance plans and
the benefits provided by the 457(f) Plan only.
8. Outside Activities. The University recognizes that it may be both appropriate and beneficial for
the President to engage in outside activities, such as serving on an external, charitable or similar
board of directors, consulting, delivering speeches, and writing. However, the President shall seek
prior approval from the Board, which will consult with the General Counsel (who serves as the
University’s Chief Ethics Officer), before agreeing to undertake any outside activities. The President
may not engage in any outside activity that conflicts with the President’s duties to, and
responsibilities for, the University or Ohio's Ethics Law. The President is required to file an annual
Financial Disclosure Statement with the Ohio Ethics Commission as required by law. All income
or other compensation earned by the President in connection with the President’s outside

7

 activities shall be paid to and retained by the President and reported in accordance with applicable
tax law and established University policy. Such income, if any, shall have no effect on the amount
of salary, benefits, or other compensation to which the President may be entitled to under this
Agreement.
9. Confidential Information; Non-Solicitation.
a. Confidentiality. The President acknowledges that while employed hereunder, he will occupy
a position of trust and confidence and will receive and have access to Confidential
Information, as hereinafter defined. The President acknowledges that such Confidential
Information is specialized, unique in nature, and of great value to the University and that such
information gives the University a competitive advantage. During the Term and thereafter,
the President shall not use the Confidential Information or disclose the Confidential
Information to any third party, except (i) as required to perform his duties in a manner
consistent with professional standards and obligations; (ii) as authorized by the University;
(iii) in furtherance of the University's legitimate business interests; (iv) to comply with
applicable law or accreditation standards; or (v) to the extent such Confidential Information
shall have become public other than by the President’s unauthorized use or disclosure.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the President use or disclose Confidential
Information if such use or disclosure will expose the University to competitive disadvantage
or legal liability, or will otherwise harm the University. For purposes of this Agreement,
“Confidential Information” means any information not generally available to the public
regarding the University or its actual or prospective students, employees, alumni, or donors,
including without limitation information regarding actual or potential activities of the
University; admissions information; fundraising information; the identities of persons under
consideration for positions as trustees, officers, or employees of the University; information
regarding actual or potential NCAA, athletic conference, legal, or regulatory proceedings; and
any other information that should by its nature or context be recognized as proprietary and/or
confidential.
b. Return of Documents and Property. The President agrees to deliver or return to the
University, at its request at any time or upon termination or expiration of his employment or
as soon thereafter as possible, all property furnished by the University or prepared,
maintained, or acquired by the President in the course of the President's employment
hereunder, including without limitation computer equipment, keys, documents, records, lists,
data, drawings, prints, notes and all other written information, in any form or media and
including all copies.
c. Non-Solicitation. The President recognizes that he will possess Confidential Information
about other employees of the University relating to their education, experience, skills,
abilities, compensation and benefits, and inter-personal relationships with faculty, staff,
students, and suppliers to the University. The President recognizes that the information he
will possess about these other employees is not generally known, is of substantial value to
the University in securing and retaining faculty, staff, and students and will be acquired by the
President because of his position. The President agrees that during the Term and for a period
of twenty-four (24) months beyond his termination or expiration of this Agreement, that he
will not, directly or indirectly, solicit, recruit, or hire or aid in the hire of any employee of the
University for the purpose of being employed by any business, individual, partnership, firm,
corporation, or other entity on whose behalf the President is acting as an agent,

8

 representative, principal, or employee, and the President will not convey any such
Confidential Information or trade secrets about other employees of the University to any
other person except within the scope of the President's duties hereunder.
d. Notification of Certain Communications. The parties agree that should another employment
opportunity be presented to the President, or should the President be interested in another
employment position during the Term of this Agreement, the President shall notify the Chair
of the Board of such opportunity or interest before he or any representative of his, holds
discussions or engages in other communications with anticipated employment position
principals.
e. Remedies for Breach. The President expressly agrees and understands that the remedy at
law for any breach by the President of this Section 9 will be inadequate and that damages
flowing from such breach are not usually susceptible to being measured in monetary terms.
Accordingly, it is acknowledged that upon the President’s violation of any provision of this
Section 9, the University shall be entitled to seek from any court of competent jurisdiction
immediate preliminary and/or permanent injunctive relief restraining any threatened or
further breach as well as an equitable accounting of all profits or benefits arising out of such
violation. Nothing in this Section 9 shall be deemed to limit the University’s remedies at law
or in equity for any breach by the President of any of the provisions of this Section 9, which
may be pursued by or available to the University.
f.

Use of Name, Image, or Likeness. During the term of this Agreement, the President consents
to the royalty-free use of his name, nickname, initials, autograph, signature (but only for
promotional purposes and not as a legally binding signature for the execution of documents
absent specific authorization from the President), voice, video or film portrayals, photograph,
image or likeness, and any other means of endorsement or identification of or by the
President, including statistical, biographical, or other information or data relating to the
President, by the University or by any party under contract with the University in the conduct
and promotion of the University and as otherwise provided in this Agreement. The President
acknowledges that from time to time the University may be presented with opportunities for
the production and distribution of multimedia broadcasts and promotional materials relating
to the University (“Multimedia”), and the President agrees to appear in and participate in the
creation of such Multimedia works. As between the parties, the University shall own all right,
title, and interest (including copyright) in and to the Multimedia works and the President
hereby assigns his interest in such to the University. The uses allowed in this Section 9(f) shall
not present the President in a false or demeaning manner. Where practicable, the University
shall provide the President advanced notice of an intended use with sufficient detail for the
President to comment and provide input on the proposed intended use. In the event the
President objects to any current or future use because it presents him in a false or demeaning
manner, he shall notify the Chair of the Board who shall reasonably consider the President's
objection and as deemed appropriate by the Chair, modify or discontinue the objectionable
use.

g. Survival of Provisions. To the extent provided in this Section 9(g), the obligations contained
in this Section 9 shall survive the termination or expiration of the President’s employment
and, as applicable, shall be fully enforceable thereafter in accordance with the terms of this
Agreement. The President agrees that the restrictions set forth in this Section 9 are
reasonable and necessary in order to protect adequately the University's interests, and agrees

9

 not to challenge the reasonableness of any such restriction in any proceeding arising out of
or related to this Agreement. If it is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction that any
restriction in this Section 9 is excessive in duration or scope or is otherwise unenforceable, it
is the intention of the parties that such restriction may be modified or amended by the court
to render it enforceable to the maximum extent permitted by law.
10. Compliance with Ohio Law. Dr. Miller’s appointment as President is subject to all applicable laws
and regulations including full compliance with Ohio's Ethics laws, including financial reporting
disclosure. In compliance therewith, the University is providing the President with the enclosed
copy of the relevant Ethics laws.
11. Section 409A and 457 Compliance. All payments and benefits under this Agreement are intended
to comply with, or otherwise be exempt from, Section 409A of the Code. Severance payments
are intended to qualify for the severance exception under Section 457 of the Code. This
Agreement shall be administered, interpreted, and construed in a manner consistent with that
intent. If any provision of this Agreement that is found not to comply with, or otherwise not be
exempt from, the provisions of Section 409A or the severance exception to Section 457 of the
Code, it shall be modified and given effect, in the sole discretion of the University and without
requiring the President’s consent, in such manner as the University determines to be necessary
or appropriate. Each payment under this Agreement shall be treated as a separate payment for
purposes of Section 409A of the Code.
12. Legal, Tax and Financial Assistance. The President acknowledges and agrees that the President
has consulted, or has been given the opportunity to consult, with personal tax, legal, and financial
advisors with respect to each and every term of this Agreement. Furthermore, neither the
University nor the Board, trustees, employees, or agents of the University makes any
representation, warranty, or guarantee to the President regarding the tax, legal, or financial
consequences of any term in this Agreement; nor does the University have any obligation to
indemnify the President from the payment of all taxes (including any penalties and interest) that
arise from payments under this Agreement.
13. Acknowledgment of Polices and Benefits. All University faculty and staff are required to
acknowledge and complete an Employment Information and Fringe Benefit Summary document.
The President shall complete and execute the Summary document as part of his hiring and
onboarding process.
14. Mediation. If the parties mutually agree, any controversy or claim that either party may have
against the other arising out of or relating to the construction, application, or enforcement of this
Agreement, as well as any controversy or claim based upon an alleged breach of any legal right
relating to or arising from the President’s employment and/or the termination of the President’s
employment may be submitted to non-binding mediation. The costs and fees associated with
mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.
15. Notice. All notices required or allowed by this Agreement shall be hand delivered or mailed by
certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested. Unless and until changed by a party
giving written notice to the other, the addresses below shall be the addresses to which all notices
required or allowed by this Agreement shall be sent:

10

 If to the University:
Chair, Board of Trustees
The University of Akron
c/o Secretary to the Board
337 Student Union
Akron, OH 44325-4705
If to the President:
Dr. Gary L. Miller
21 Furnace Street #804
Akron, Ohio 44308
16. Severability and Waivers. If any portion of this Agreement shall be held to be invalid, inoperative,
or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, then, so far as possible, effect shall be
given to the intent manifested by the portion held invalid, inoperative, or unenforceable, and the
remainder of this Agreement not found invalid, inoperative, or unenforceable shall remain in full
force and effect. No waiver or failure to enforce any or all rights under this Agreement by either
party on any occasion shall constitute a waiver of that party's right to assert the same or any other
rights on that or any other occasion.
17. Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed and construed, and the rights and obligations
of the parties hereto shall be determined, in accordance with the laws of the State of Ohio,
excluding its choice of law rules. Dr. Miller’s appointment as President is specifically subject to
and may be superseded by the fiscal watch provisions of Ohio Revised Code Chapter 3345,
including the performance evaluation, suspension of authority, duties, pay, and termination
provisions required by Ohio Revised Code § 3345.77.
18. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, and by the parties on separate
counterparts each of which, when so executed, shall constitute but one of the same instrument.
19. Complete Agreement. This Agreement and the deferred compensation agreement contemplated
by Section 3(b) constitute the entire agreement between the parties and fully supersede any and
all prior agreements or understandings, written or oral, between the parties pertaining to the
matters set forth herein. As such, this Agreement supersedes and replaces the President’s Term
Sheet between Dr. Miller and the University. This Agreement shall not be amended, modified, or
changed other than by written agreement by the President and the University.
20. Personal Contract. The President’s obligations and duties shall be personal and not assignable or
delegable in any manner whatsoever. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the
benefit of the President and the President’s executors, administrators, heirs, successors, and
permitted assigns, and upon the University and its successors and assigns.

11

 21. Miscellaneous. The headings in this Agreement are for convenience only and shall not be used
in construing or interpreting this Agreement. The terms “Board,” “Board of Trustees,” and
“University” as used in this Agreement, where applicable or appropriate, shall be deemed to
include or refer to any duly authorized board, committee, officer, or employee of said entity.
Whenever the context requires, the masculine shall include the feminine and neuter, the singular
shall include the plural, and conversely.

The University of Akron
_________________________________________
Joseph M. Gingo
Chair, The University of Akron Board of Trustees

Date:_____________________________________

_________________________________________
Dr. Gary L. Miller
President

Date:_____________________________________

12

 THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
RESOLUTION 10- -19
Authorizing the Reorganization of the Office of Academic Affairs and
Establishing the Position of
Executive Vice President and Provost

WHEREAS, On December 6, 2017 through Resolution 12-17-17, the Board acknowledged
the need for additional resources in the Office of Academic Affairs, and authorized the creation of
the co-equal positions of the Executive Vice President and Chief Academic Officer and the
Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer; and
WHEREAS, That same resolution authorized the University administration to begin a
national search for an Executive Vice President and Chief Academic Officer “as soon as
practicable”; and
WHEREAS, The Board appointed Dr. Rex Ramsier (“Ramsier”) as the Executive Vice
President and Chief Administrative Officer, and asked Ramsier to continue to serve as the Senior
Vice President and Provost, thereby fulfilling the functions of the Executive Vice President and
Chief Academic Officer, during the pendency of the search; and
WHEREAS, A search for the Executive Vice President and Chief Academic Officer began
in early 2018, but because of the subsequent transition of the presidency due to the resignation of
President Wilson, the search was suspended in spring 2018; and
WHEREAS, On April 17, 2019, after Ramsier having continued to perform the functions
of two separate executive vice-presidential positions, the Board, through Resolution 4-20-19,
appointed Ramsier to serve only as the Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer
and extended his contract to serve in that position through June 30, 2021; and
WHEREAS, In that same resolution, the Board also appointed Dr. Chand Midha (“Midha”)
to serve as the Interim Executive Vice President and Chief Academic Officer, while also having
Midha continue to serve as the Executive Dean of the Graduate School; and
WHEREAS, The Board further authorized the engagement of a search firm to conduct a
national search for the position of Executive Vice President and Chief Academic Officer in
accordance with the collective bargaining agreement and in coordination with the search for a
President, and acknowledged that neither Ramsier nor Midha would be a candidate for this
position; and
WHEREAS, The Board discontinued the title of Senior Vice President and Provost; and
WHEREAS, On August 14, 2019, the Board concluded its search for a new President and
announced Dr. Gary L Miller (“Miller”) as its new President effective October 1, 2019; and

 2

WHEREAS, The Board, in consultation with and upon the recommendation of Miller,
desires to discontinue the current organizational structure of the Office of Academic Affairs and
to create a new structure, including creation of the position of Executive Vice President and
Provost (“EVP/Provost”); and
WHEREAS, The Board desires to immediately undertake a national search for the
EVP/Provost; Now, Therefore,
BE IT RESOLVED, That the Office of Academic Affairs shall be reorganized to eliminate
the co-equal positions of the Executive Vice President and Chief Academic Officer and the
Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer and to create the new position of the
EVP/Provost; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, That the EVP/Provost position will be responsible for all
functions for which the Executive Vice President and Chief Academic Officer and the Executive
Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer have been responsible; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, That in order to maintain stability in the Office of
Academic Affairs during the transition to the new organizational structure, the current
organizational structure shall remain in place until the EVP/Provost is selected, with Ramsier and
Midha continuing to serve in their respective current roles; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, That the University will conduct a national search, to be
led by the Search Committee and Miller, to select a new EVP/Provost.

M. Celeste Cook, Secretary
Board of Trustees

October 9, 2019

 THE UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
RESOLUTION 10- -19
Authorizing Dr. Miller to Develop a University-wide Strategic Plan

WHEREAS, The University of Akron is focused on the outcome of student success; and
WHEREAS, The University has developed a series of three-year action plans to help guide
University operations toward that outcome; and
WHEREAS, These plans currently are being updated and revised; Now, Therefore,
BE IT RESOLVED, That the President of the University will use the existing plans as a
foundation to develop a University-wide strategic plan that will guide the University for a threeto five-year time horizon; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, That the President will organize an inclusive process that
will result in the presentation of the strategic plan at the June 10, 2020 regular meeting of the Board
of Trustees.

M. Celeste Cook, Secretary
Board of Trustees

October 9, 2019

 