ORIGINAL VERSION

BYLAWS
OF THE
GREATER CLEVELAND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY

TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE I.
Sec. 1.
Sec. 2.
Sec. 3.

General Provisions
Principal Office.
Sub Offices.
Compensation of Members.

ARTICLE II.
Sec. 1.
Sec. 2.
Sec. 3.
Sec. 4.
Sec. 5.
Sec. 6.
Sec. 7.
Sec. 8.
Sec. 9.

Officers
Officers Generally.
Terms of Office.
Resignations.
Removal.
Vacancies.
President.
Vice-President.
General Manager and Secretary-Treasurer.
Assistants.

ARTICLE III.
Sec. 1.
Sec. 2.
Sec. 3.
Sec. 4.
Sec. 5.
Sec. 6.
Sec. 7.
Sec. 8.
Sec. 9.

Meetings
Quorum.
Meeting Places.
Meetings Generally.
Minutes and Resolutions.
Public Meetings.
Rules of Procedure.
Conduct of Meetings.
Absence of Secretary-Treasurer.
Rules for Notification of Meetings.

 ARTICLE IV.
Sec. 1.
Sec. 2.
Sec. 3.
Sec. 4.
Sec. 5.
Sec. 6.
Sec. 7.
Sec. 8.

Powers and Duties
Appointment of Personnel.
Salary Ranges.
Employees.
Merit System Appeals Board. (Repealed)
Professional Consultants.
Delegation of Duties.
Execution of Instruments.
Reimbursement for Expenses.

ARTICLE V.
Sec. 1.
Sec. 2.

Official Seal
Adoption.
Failure to Affix.

ARTICLE VI.
Sec. 1.
Sec. 2.
Sec. 3.
Sec. 4.

Committees
Standing Committees.
Other Committees.
Meetings.
Special Advisory Committees.

ARTICLE VII.
Sec. 1.
Sec. 2.
Sec. 3.
Sec. 3A.
Sec. 4.
Sec. 5.

Appropriations and Contracts
Appropriations.
Contracts.
Expenditures.
Change Orders. (Repealed)
Equal Employment Opportunity.
Nondiscrimination in Contracts, Purchase Orders and
Agreements.

ARTICLE VIII.
Sec. 1.
Sec. 2.
Sec. 3.
Sec. 4.
Sec. 5.
Sec. 6.
Sec. 7.

Administration and Employment
Authority of General Manager.
Employment Generally.
Positions of Permanent Employment.
Table of Organization; Establishment of Departments; Salaries.
Internal Audit Department.
Personnel Decisions re Director of Internal Audit.
Personnel Provisions; Fringe Benefits.

ARTICLE IX.
Sec. 1.
Sec. 2.
Sec. 3.
Sec. 4.

Construction, Codification and Indemnification
Construction and Severability.
Number, Gender and Tense.
Codification.
Indemnification.

 ARTICLE X. Amendments and Prior Legislation
Sec. 1. Amendments.
Sec. 2. Prior Legislation.

5

BYLAWS
OF THE
GREATER CLEVELAND REGIONAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY

ARTICLE I
General Provisions
Sec. 1. Principal Office. The principal office of the Greater Cleveland Regional
Transit Authority (hereinafter referred to as the "Authority"), its Board of Trustees
(hereinafter sometimes referred to as the "Board"), and its Secretary-Treasurer, shall
be located at 1240 West 6th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44113.
(Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)
Sec. 2. Sub Offices. The Board may establish sub offices at such other places,
within the territory served by the Authority, as shall be designated from time to time
by the Board in order to further the purposes of the Authority and the efficiency of its
operation. (Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)
Sec. 3. Compensation of Members. All members of the Board shall be
compensated and shall be reimbursed for expenses as provided by law, by the
agreement by which this Authority was established and by resolutions of the Board not
inconsistent therewith. (Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)
ARTICLE II
Officers
Sec. 1. Officers Generally. The officers of the Authority shall be President,
Vice-President and General Manager, who shall also serve as Secretary-Treasurer, and
such other officers as the Board of Trustees may from time to time designate. The
President and Vice-President shall be members of the Board and shall be elected to
their offices; all other officers shall not be members of the Board and shall be appointed
to their offices.
(Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)

2011 Replacement

 BYLAWS OF THE G.C.R.T.A.

6

Sec. 2. Terms of Office. The President and Vice-President elected prior to adoption
of these Bylaws shall continue to hold office until the next annual meeting of the Board
and until their successors take office. The terms of the President and Vice-President
elected thereafter shall be one year and until their successors take office. The
President and Vice-President shall be elected at the annual meeting of the Board and
shall take office on their election, provided that either the President or the
Vice-President shall be a trustee appointed by the City of Cleveland and the other shall
be a trustee appointed by one of the other two appointing authorities. If either the
President or the Vice-President, who was a member of the Board when he or she was
elected to office, ceases to be such a member, he or she shall also cease to be such
officer. (Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)
Sec. 3. Resignations. Any officer may resign from his or her position as such officer
by giving written notice of such resignation to the President of the Board, provided that
in the event of resignation of the President, such written notice shall be given to the
Vice-President. The resignation shall be effective as of the time or upon the event
stated in such written notice, or, if there is no such time or event stated, then as of the
date of the receipt of the written notice of resignation by the proper officer. Notice of
the resignation shall be transmitted promptly to the other members of the Board by
the officer receiving such resignation. Resignations shall not require acceptance by the
Board. (Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)
Sec. 4. Removal. All appointed officers shall serve at the pleasure of the Board and
shall be subject to removal by the Board at any time. (Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)
Sec. 5. Vacancies. Any vacancy in the office of President or Vice-President of the
Board shall be filled for the unexpired term by majority vote of the Board in the same
manner as the original election of such officer. (Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)
Sec. 6. President. The President shall preside at all meetings of the Board. He or
she shall perform all duties commonly incident to the position of presiding officer of a
board or commission and all duties commonly incident to the position of chairman of
a board or commission. He or she shall have authority (without impairment of any
authority specifically granted by the Board to any other person) to sign all contracts,
releases, notes, bonds and other documents and instruments to be executed on behalf
of the Authority. He or she shall perform such other duties and have such other
authority as may be provided from time to time by the Board.
(Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)

 7

BYLAWS OF THE G.C.R.T.A.

Sec. 7. Vice-President. The Vice-President shall perform the duties and have the
authority of the President during the absence or inability of the President to perform
his or her duties and during any period while the office of President is vacant, and
shall preside at all meetings of the Board when and while the President shall vacate
the chair. When performing the duties and having the authority of the President, the
Vice-President shall have all powers of the President. He or she shall perform such
other duties and have such authority as the Board may from time to time provide. At
any meeting at which both the President and Vice-President are absent, the Board, by
a majority vote of those present, may elect a member of the Board to serve as presiding
officer for that meeting. If the Vice-President is elected to fill a vacancy in the office of
the President, the office of Vice-President shall thereupon be deemed to be vacant and
shall be filled in the manner provided in these Bylaws. (Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)
Sec. 8. General Manager and Secretary-Treasurer.
(a) The General Manager shall be the chief executive officer of the Authority, as
well as being the Fiscal Officer of the Authority in his or her role as
Secretary-Treasurer.
(b) In his or her role as General Manager, he or she:
(1) Shall have full authority to manage the properties and business of the
Authority, except for those powers and authorities reserved to the Board;
(2) Shall direct the enforcement of all resolutions, rules and policies of the Board
relative to the general operation of the Authority;
(3) Shall prepare and submit to the Board the annual budget and appropriation
measures and amendments thereto;
(4) May sign and execute contracts and agreements necessary and proper for the
performance of his or her duties, subject to Article VII, Section 3;
(5) Shall do all things necessary for the proper implementation of the policies and
programs of the Board;
(6) Shall report to and counsel with the President of the Board and, in the
President's absence, the Vice-President, on questions of procedure, policy or practice;
(7) May hire, fire, promote and demote all personnel, within the bounds of law,
contract, and the Personnel Policies and Procedures, except as provided in Article VIII,
Sections 5 and 6, of these Bylaws;
(8) Shall develop performance assessment criteria and perform semiannual
performance reviews for all personnel;

1999-B Replacement

 BYLAWS OF THE G.C.R.T.A.

8

(9) Shall determine the salaries of all personnel within the salary ranges approved
by the Board of Trustees, other than those salaries determined by operation of law or
contract;
(10) Shall coordinate and be responsible for communication with and assignment
of work to the Legal Affairs Division of the Authority;
(11) May, as Chief Executive Officer, direct the Legal Affairs Division to prosecute,
defend, settle or compromise all suits and claims for and on behalf of the Authority
arising out of the operation of the Authority;
(12) Shall perform such other duties as may be required by law or may be imposed
on him or her by the Board;
(13) Shall execute all checks; and
(14) Shall be deemed to have discharged his or her responsibilities under these
Bylaws if he or she has caused the same to be discharged by an assistant or other
person properly authorized by him or her.
(c) In his or her role as Secretary-Treasurer, he or she:
(1) Shall be the Fiscal Officer of the Authority;
(2) Before receiving any moneys, shall give a compensated surety bond to and in
favor of the Authority in the penal sum of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000). Such
bond shall be conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of the office and
shall be executed by sureties satisfactory to the Authority. The cost of such bond and
any other bonds required by these Bylaws shall be paid by the Authority.
(3) Shall attend all meetings of the Board and keep accurate records of the
proceedings, which shall be attested to by him or her. He or she shall have such
authority and perform such duties as are provided by law and such as may, at any time
and from time to time, be delegated to him or her by the Board. He or she shall have
custody of and maintain all minutes, resolutions, records, documents and files of the
Authority as true and exact copies thereof and shall affix to such certification any seal
of the Authority, which seal shall be maintained in his or her custody.
(4) Shall cause to be kept accurate books of account of all transactions on behalf
of the Authority;
(5) Shall have the care and custody of the funds of the Authority and may, on
behalf of the Authority, endorse for deposit or collection all drafts, checks, notes and
other instruments and orders for the payment of money to the Authority, or its order,
and sign receipts therefor;

1999-B Replacement

 9

BYLAWS OF THE G.C.R.T.A.
(6) May sign, on behalf of the Authority, all vouchers for payments to be
made by the Authority and checks, drafts, bonds, notes and other
obligations of the Authority for the payment of money by the Authority
in the manner and to the extent provided in these Bylaws;
(7) Shall, from time to time, allocate and reallocate the funds of the
Authority to inactive, interim, active or special funds, and invest such
funds, as provided or permitted by law or as authorized by the Board;
(8) Shall be Secretary to all committees and, when directed by the chairman
of any committee, shall cause minutes of each meeting to be kept;
(9) Shall have such authority and perform such other duties as are conferred
by law upon or incident to the office of Secretary or Treasurer and the
office of Fiscal Officer of an authority, board or commission. He or she
shall be deemed to have discharged his or her responsibilities under
these Bylaws if he or she has caused the same to be discharged by an
assistant or other person properly authorized by him or her, except as to
any duty which under the law can be discharged only personally by the
Secretary-Treasurer or Fiscal Officer of an authority, pursuant to law.
(10) Shall perform such other duties as may be required of him or her by law
or as may be imposed on him or her by the Board.
(Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88; Res. 1999-145. Passed 10-26-99.)

Sec. 9. Assistants. The Board may appoint from time to time such assistants to the
Board as it deems appropriate. Such assistants may perform any and all of the duties
and have the authority and powers as shall be delegated and assigned to them from
time to time by the Board, subject only to limitations imposed by law. Such assistants
may include, but are not limited to, secretarial assistants, clerical assistants and a
legal advisor to the Board, who shall not be a member of the Legal Affairs Division of
the Authority. (Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88; Res. 1999-145. Passed 10-26-99.)
ARTICLE III
Meetings
Sec. 1. Quorum. A majority of the members of the Board of Trustees shall constitute
a quorum and the affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Board shall be
necessary for any action taken by the Board, provided that less than a quorum may
adjourn a meeting of the Board.
(Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)

2014B Replacement (N/C)

 BYLAWS OF THE G.C.R.T.A.

10

Sec. 2. Meeting Places. All meetings of the Board shall be held at its principal
office, at such other place as may be designated by the President at a preceding
meeting or as designated in the notice of the meeting, as hereinafter provided.
(Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)
Sec. 3. Meetings Generally. The annual meeting of the Board shall be at the first
regular meeting in March in each year. Regular meetings of the Board shall be held at
the principal office of the Authority on the third Tuesday of each calendar month, and
regular Committee meetings shall be held on the first Tuesday of each calendar month,
at an hour established by resolution of the Board, unless another date and/or hour for
such meeting is designated by motion of the Board duly adopted at a preceding regular
meeting. Special meetings of the Board may be called at any time by resolution or by
the President, Vice-President or any two members of the Board. The officer or member
calling the meeting shall give notice, or cause the same to be given, to the other
members of the Board of the date, hour and place of the meeting. Such notice may be
given in person or by telephone at least twenty-four hours prior to the meeting, by
letter mailed by first class mail or by telegram, and such letter shall be mailed and
such telegram shall be sent at least forty-eight hours prior to the meeting. Notice of a
meeting need not be given to any member of the Board who was in attendance at the
meeting when the resolution calling the special meeting was adopted or if such notice
was waived by him or her in writing before, during or after such meeting, or if he or
she shall be present at the meeting. Any meeting shall be a valid meeting without
notice having been given if all of the members of the Board are present at such
meeting. (Res. 1999-57. Passed 4-20-99; Motion 3-27-01. Effective 6-1-01.)
Sec. 4. Minutes and Resolutions.
(a) Action of the Board shall be by resolution or motion. Resolutions shall be in
written or typewritten form. On passage of each motion or resolution, the vote of each
member present shall be entered in the minutes of the meeting, provided that a
unanimous vote may be recorded as such in the minutes.
(b) The minutes of each meeting of the Board shall be recorded in a separate book
designated "Minutes Book," bearing appropriate volume numbers, to be kept by the
Secretary-Treasurer for such purpose. With respect to each meeting there shall be
shown in the minutes the date and place at which the meeting was held, the names of
the members present, a summary of business transacted and a record of each vote
taken. The minutes will be signed by the President or other member of the Board
presiding at the meeting and shall be attested by the Secretary-Treasurer. A resolution
adopted shall be identified by appropriate reference to the number and title of such
resolution.
2011 Replacement

 11

BYLAWS OF THE G.C.R.TA

(c) Each resolution adopted by the Board will be numbered, signed by the member of
the Board presiding at the meeting, attested by the Secretary-Treasurer or Assistant
Secretary-Treasurer and maintained in separate books designated "Resolution Book,"
bearing appropriate volume numbers, to be kept by the Secretary-Treasurer for such
purpose. Resolutions shall be annually numbered consecutively beginning with the
number one. Each resolution shall bear as a prefix to its number the year in which it
was adopted.
(d) As provided by law, the Minutes Books and Resolution Books shall be open to the
inspection of the public at all reasonable times.
(Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)
Sec. 5. Public Meetings. All meetings of the Board, except executive sessions held
for purposes required or permitted by law, shall be open to the public, and no person
shall be excluded from any meeting except for conduct which unreasonably interferes
with the orderly conduct of the meeting. (Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)
Sec. 6. Rules of Procedure. Until otherwise provided, meetings of the Board shall
be conducted in accordance with Robert's Rules of Order, subject to Section 7. (Res.
1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)
Sec. 7. Conduct of Meetings. Meetings of the Board shall be conducted in accordance
with the following procedures:
(a) Vote. Actions may be taken by voice vote, except that the presiding officer may,
and upon the request of any member shall, require any vote to be taken by roll call.
Any member of the Board shall be permitted to change his or her vote until the roll call
has been verified and the result declared. A motion for reconsideration on any vote may
be made by any member who was in the majority on such vote. Such motion must be
made not later than the close of the meeting following the one at which such vote was
taken.
(b) Division of Question. If any question contains two or more divisible
propositions, the presiding member may, and upon request of a member shall, divide
the same.
(c) Order of Business. Unless otherwise ordered by the presiding officer or
consented to by motion, the business of regular meetings of the Board shall be
transacted in the following order:
1. Roll call
2. Submission of minutes of preceding meetings
3. Reports and communications from officers

 BYLAWS OF THE G.C.R.TA

12

4. Other reports and communications
5. Reports of standing committees
6. Reports of other committees
7. Consideration of pending resolutions and motions
8. Introduction of new resolutions and motions
9. Other business 10, Adjournment.
(d) Motions. Motions shall be presented, seconded and acted upon, in accordance
with recognized parliamentary procedures. Upon request of any member, any motion
shall be reduced to writing. Any motion may be withdrawn by the movant with the
consent of the second, before it has been amended or voted upon. All motions which
have been entertained by the presiding member shall be entered upon the minutes of
the meeting. (Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)
Sec. 8. Absence of Secretary-Treasurer. If neither the Secretary-Treasurer nor the
Assistant Secretary-Treasurer is present at a meeting, the presiding member may
designate a person, who need not be a member of the Board, as acting Secretary to
record the minutes of the meeting and attest to any resolution adopted at such
meeting. The acting Secretary may also certify as to the authenticity of any resolution
adopted at such meeting or to the correctness of a copy or extract of the minutes of such
meeting. (Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)
Sec. 9. Rules for Notification of Meetings. The following Rules are hereby adopted,
pursuant to Ohio R.C. 121.22(F), for the purposes of establishing a reasonable method
for any person to determine the time and place of all regularly scheduled meetings and
the time, place and purpose of all special meetings; making provisions for giving
advance notice of special meetings to the news media that have requested notification;
and making provisions for persons to request and obtain reasonable advance
notification of all meetings at which any specific type of public business is to be
discussed. These Rules are in addition to any applicable legal requirements as to
notices to members of the Board or to others in connection with specific meetings or
specific subject matters.
(a) Definitions. As used in these Rules:
(1) "Day" means calendar day.
(2) "Meeting" means any prearranged discussion of the public business of the
Authority by a majority of the members of the Board.
(3) "Notification" means notification given orally, either in person or by
telephone, directly to the person for whom such notification is intended, or by leaving
an oral message for such person at the address, or if by telephone at the telephone
number, of such person as shown on the records kept by the Secretary-Treasurer under
these Rules.

 13

BYLAWS OF THE G.C.R.T.A
(4) "Post" means to post, in an area accessible to the public, during usual
business hours at the office of the Secretary-Treasurer and at the
following location:
Entrance Lobby
1240 West 6th Street
Cleveland, Ohio 44113
A notice identifying the locations at which notifications will be posted
pursuant to these Rules shall be published by the Secretary-Treasurer
within five calendar days after the adoption of these Rules.
(5) "Special meeting" means a meeting which is neither a regular meeting
nor an adjournment of a regular meeting to another time or day to
consider items specifically stated on the original agenda of such regular
meeting.
(6) "Written notification" means notification in writing which is mailed,
telegraphed or delivered to the address of the person for whom such
notification is intended, as shown on the records kept by the
Secretary-Treasurer under these Rules, or in any way delivered to such
person. If mailed, such notification shall be mailed by first class mail,
deposited in a U.S. Postal Service mailbox not later than the second day
preceding the day of the meeting to which such notification refers,
provided that at least one regular mail delivery day falls between the
day of mailing and the day of such meeting.
(b) Notice of Regular and Organizational Meetings.
(1) The Secretary-Treasurer shall post a statement of the times and places
of regular meetings of the Board of each calendar year not later than the
second day preceding the day of the first regular meeting of the calendar
year. The Secretary-Treasurer shall check at reasonable intervals to
ensure that such statement remains so posted during such calendar year.
If at any time during the calendar year the time or place of regular
meetings, or of any regular meeting, is changed on a permanent or
temporary basis, a statement of the time and place of such changed
regular meetings shall be so posted by the Secretary-Treasurer at least
twenty-four hours before the time of the first changed regular meeting.
(2) The Secretary-Treasurer shall post a statement of time and place of the
annual meeting of the Board at least twenty-four hours before the time
of such annual meeting.
(3) Upon the adjournment of any regular or special meeting to another day,
the Secretary-Treasurer shall promptly post notice of the time and place
of such adjourned meeting.

2011 Replacement

 BYLAWS OF THE G.C.R.T.A.

14

(c) Notice of Special Meetings.
(1) Except in the case of a special meeting referred to in paragraph (d)(4)
hereof, the Secretary-Treasurer shall, not later than twenty-four hours
before the time of a special meeting, post a statement of the time, place
and purposes of such special meeting.
(2) The statement provided for in this subsection and the notifications
provided for in subsection (d) hereof shall state such specific or general
purposes then known to the Secretary-Treasurer which are intended to
be considered at such special meeting and may state, as an additional
general purpose, that any other business as may properly come before
the Board at such meeting may be considered and acted upon.
(d) Notice to News Media of Special Meetings.
(1) Any news medium organization that desires to be given advance
notification of special meetings shall file with the Secretary-Treasurer
a written request therefor, on a standard form to be provided by the
Secretary-Treasurer. Except in the event of an emergency requiring
immediate official actions, as referred to in subsection (d) hereof, a
special meeting shall not be held unless at least twenty-four hours
advance notice of the time, place and purposes of such special meeting
is given to the news media that have requested such advance notification
in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) hereof.
(2) News media requests for such advance notification of special meetings
shall specify the name of the medium; the name and address of the
person to whom written notifications to the medium may be mailed,
telegraphed or delivered; the names, addresses and telephone numbers
(including addresses and telephone numbers at which notifications may
be given either during or outside of business hours) of at least two
persons to either one of whom oral notifications to the medium may be
given; and at least one telephone number which the request identifies as
being manned, and which can be called at any hour for the purpose of
giving oral notification to such medium.
Any such request shall be effective for one year from the date of
filing with the Secretary-Treasurer or until the Secretary-Treasurer
receives written notice from such medium canceling or modifying such
request, whichever is earlier. Each requesting news medium shall be
informed of such period of effectiveness at the time it files its request.
Such request may be modified or extended only by filing a complete
request with the Secretary-Treasurer. A request shall not be deemed to
be made unless it is complete in all respects and unless such request may
be conclusively relied on by the Board, the Authority and the SecretaryTreasurer.

 15

BYLAWS OF THE G.C.R.T.A,

(3) The Secretary-Treasurer shall give such oral or written notification, or
both, as he or she determines, to the news media that have requested such advanced
notification, in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) hereof, of the time, place and purposes
of each special meeting, at least twenty-four hours prior to such special meeting.
(4) In the event of an emergency requiring immediate official action, a special
meeting may be held without giving twenty-four hours advance notification thereof to
the requesting news media. The persons calling such meeting, or any one or more of
such persons or the Secretary-Treasurer on their behalf, shall immediately give oral
or written notification, or both, as the person giving such notification determines, of
the time, place and purposes of such special meeting to such news media that have
requested such advance notification in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) hereof. The
minutes or the call, or both, of any special meeting shall state the general nature of the
emergency requiring immediate official action.
(e) Notification of Discussion of Special Types of Public Business.
(1) Any person, upon written request and as provided herein, may obtain
reasonable advance notification of all meetings at which any specific type of public
business is scheduled to be discussed.
Such person shall file a written request with the Secretary-Treasurer, specifying the
person's name and the address(es) and telephone number(s) at or through which the
person can be reached during and outside of business hours; the specific type of public
business the discussion of which the person is requesting advance notification; and the
number of calendar months (not to exceed twelve) which the request covers. Such
request may be canceled by request for such person to the Secretary-Treasurer.
Each such written request shall be accompanied by stamped self-addressed Number
10 envelopes sufficient in number to cover the number of regular meetings during the
time period covered by the request. The Secretary-Treasurer shall notify in writing the
requesting person when the supply of Number 10 envelopes is running out, and if the
person desires notification after such supply has run out, such person must deliver to
the Secretary-Treasurer an additional reasonable number of such stamped
self-addressed envelopes as a condition to receiving further notifications.

1990-A Replacement

 BYLAWS OF THE G.C.R.T.A,

16

Such requests may be modified or extended only by filing a complete new request with
the Secretary-Treasurer. A request shall not be deemed to be made unless it is
complete in all respects and unless such request may be conclusively relied on by the
Authority, the Board and the Secretary-Treasurer.
(2) The Secretary-Treasurer shall give such advance notification under this
subsection by written or oral notification, or both, as he or she determines.
The contents of written notification under this paragraph may be a copy of the agenda
of the meeting. Written notification under this paragraph may be accomplished by
giving advance written notification, by copies of the agendas, of all meetings of the
Board that are the subject of such request,
(f)

Notification Generally.
(1) Any person may visit or telephone the office of the Secretary-Treasurer
during regular office hours to determine, based on information available at that office,
the time and place of regular meetings; the time, place and purposes of any then known
special meetings; and whether or not the available agenda of any such future meeting
states that a specific type of public business, identified by such person, is to be
discussed at such meeting.
(2) Any notification provided herein to be given by the Secretary-Treasurer may
be given by any person acting in behalf of or under the authority of the
Secretary-Treasurer.
(3) A reasonable attempt at notification shall constitute notification in compliance
with these Rules.
(4) A certificate by the Secretary-Treasurer as to compliance with these Rules shall
be conclusive upon the Authority.
(Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)
ARTICLE IV
Powers and Duties
Sec. 1. Appointment of Personnel. Notwithstanding the enumeration of various
officers and the delineation of their duties in these Bylaws, the Board of Trustees may
from time to time create such additional positions of employment as it may deem
desirable or necessary. These positions may or may not be subject to the Personnel
Policies and Procedures. The General Manager shall appoint individuals to these
positions and shall enumerate their duties. (Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)

1990-A Replacement

 17

BYLAWS OF THE G.C.R.TA.

Sec. 2. Salary Ranges. The Board will set salary ranges for each grade of classified
positions, as well as the salary ranges for all unclassified positions, subject to any legal
or contractual limitation. The salary ranges will include both minimum and maximum
compensation for each grade of classified positions and each unclassified position, with
the maximum salary for each being not less than 150 percent of the minimum salary.
The General Manager will determine the salary of each individual employee within the
salary range determined by the Board for that grade or position. (Res. 1988-38. Passed
2-16-88.)
Sec. 3. Employees. To provide a sound, comprehensive and uniform system of
personnel administration for the Authority, whereby effectiveness and economy in the
personal services rendered and fairness to the employees and the public alike may be
promoted and employment in the system may be rendered attractive as a career to
persons qualified to serve therein, the Board shall adopt rules governing appointment
and promotion in the Authority. The Rules so established shall remain and continue
in effect until amended or rescinded by the Board of Trustees. (Res. 1988-38. Passed
2-16-88.)
Sec. 4. Merit System Appeals Board. (EDITOR'S NOTE: Section 4 was repealed by
Resolution 1991-22, passed January 22, 1991.)

1999-B Replacement

 BYLAWS OF THE G.C.R.T.A.

18

Sec. 5. Professional Consultants. The Board may from time to time engage
professional consultants or advisors as it may deem desirable or necessary. Such
professional consultants shall be employed at compensation established by the Board
and shall serve at the pleasure of the Board unless they are governed by specific
contracts of engagement. The Board may authorize the General Manager to employ
professional consultants and advisors and, except as the Board has otherwise
established, prescribe their duties and conditions for performing services for the
Authority. (Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)
Sec. 6. Delegation of Duties. There is reserved to the General Manager the
authority, from time to time, to delegate, transfer or assign duties of employees to the
extent permitted by law and in conformity with the Personnel Policies and Procedures
established by the Board. (Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)
Sec. 7. Execution of Instruments.
(a) Deeds. Leases. Contracts and Other Agreements. Deeds, leases, contracts,
agreements and all other documents, except those referred to in subsection (b) hereof,
shall be signed by the officer or other person specified in any pertinent statute as the
officer or other person required to execute such instruments. If no such statutory
requirement exists, such instruments shall be signed by the President or
Vice-President and by the Secretary-Treasurer, or the Assistant Secretary-Treasurer,
but the Board may at any time or from time to time designate one or more of its
members or any other employee or officer to execute any such instrument for and on
behalf of the Authority.
(b) Checks. Drafts. Etc. Checks shall be executed by the signature of the General
Manager, which signature may be a facsimile signature. Drafts, notes, bonds and any
other instruments requiring the payment of money shall be executed by the
Secretary-Treasurer.
(c) Purchase Orders. Purchase orders for materials and services for which
expenditures have been authorized may be signed by the President, the Vice-President,
the Secretary-Treasurer, the Assistant Secretary-Treasurer, the General Manager, and
the Deputy General Manager-Finance and Administration, of the Authority, as
provided in Article VII, Section 3. A facsimile signature may be used in certifying the
availability of funds as required by law.
(Res. 1999-145. Passed 10-26-99.)

1999-B Replacement

 19

BYLAWS OF THE G.C.R.T.A.

Sec. 8. Reimbursement for Expenses. Any member of the Board who properly
incurs expenses in the course of his or her official duties shall be reimbursed for such
expenses so incurred, upon vouchers approved by the President, or, in his or her
absence, the Vice-President, and by the Secretary-Treasurer.
All officers and employees who properly incur expenses in the course of their official
duties shall be reimbursed for such expense so incurred upon vouchers approved by the
General Manager or a Deputy General Manager. (Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88; Res.
1999-145. Passed 10-26-99.)
ARTICLE V
Official Seal
Sec. 1. Adoption. The Authority may adopt an official seal, which shall be maintained
at the principal office of the Authority. (Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)
Sec. 2. Failure to Affix. Failure to affix the seal of the Authority to any document or
instrument shall in no manner affect the validity of such document or instrument.
(Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)
ARTICLE VI
Committees
Sec. 1. Standing Committees. The four standing committees of the Board shall be
the Finance Committee, the Executive Committee, the Operations Committee and the
Planning and Development Committee. The Board may establish from time to time
such additional committees of its members as it deems necessary, and the President
shall appoint members to such committees, naming one of the committee's members
as chairman. If the President fails to appoint members to a committee or name a
chairman of a committee, then the Board shall appoint such members or name a
chairman as the case may be. The President and Vice-President shall each be an
ex-officio member of each committee. (Res. 1998-76. Passed 6-16-98.)
Sec. 2. Other Committees. The Board may, from time to time, create additional
committees. If the President fails to appoint members of a committee or name a
chairman of a committee, then the Board shall appoint such members or name a
chairman as the case may be. The President and Vice-President shall each be an
ex-officio member of each committee. (Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)

1999-B Replacement

 BYLAWS OF THE G.C.R.T.A.

20

Sec. 3. Meetings. In the absence of a chairman, a quorum of any committee being
present, a temporary chairman shall be selected by a majority vote of the members
present. Each committee may establish a procedure for calling and giving notice of
committee meetings, the conduct of such meeting, the undertaking of committee
activities, and the preparation of committee reports, provided, that in the case of any
committee which consists of a majority of the members of the Board, notification of
meetings of such committee shall be given, and such meetings shall be conducted, in
accordance with Section 9 of Article III of these Bylaws. (Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)
Sec. 4. Special Advisory Committees. The Board may create Special Advisory
Committees. The President shall appoint members of the Special Advisory Committees
naming a chairman of each. Members of Special Advisory Committees need not be
members of the Board. If the President fails to appoint members to a Special Advisory
Committee or a chairman thereof, then the Board shall appoint such members or
chairman as the case may be. Each Special Advisory Committee shall establish a
procedure for calling and giving notice of that committee's meetings, the conduct of its
meetings and the preparation of its reports including the procedure to be used in such
preparation. The President of the Board or a Board member designated by him or her
shall be an ex-officio member of each Advisory Committee. (Res. 1988-38. Passed
2-16-88.)
ARTICLE VII
Appropriations and Contracts
Sec. 1. Appropriations. Appropriations and budget procedure shall be in accordance
with the Ohio Revised Code. (Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)
Sec. 2. Contracts. Contracts shall be entered into in accordance with the applicable
provisions of the Ohio Revised Code and these Bylaws. (Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)
Sec. 3. Expenditures. Expenditures in excess of the amount specified by law shall be
authorized by the Board. Expenditures of the amount allowed by law or less for which
moneys have been appropriated may be made on authorization of the President or, in
his or her absence, the Vice-President, or of the General Manager, or, in his or her
absence, the Acting General Manager. (Res. 1999-145. Passed 10-26-99.)
1999-B Replacement

 21

BYLAWS OF THE G.C.R.T.A.

Sec. 3A Change Orders. (EDITOR'S NOTE: Section 3A was repealed by Resolution
1991-22, passed January 22, 1991.)
Sec. 4. Equal Employment Opportunity. The Authority shall not discriminate
against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, religion, color, sex
or national origin. The Authority shall take affirmative action to ensure that
applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during their employment,
without regard to their race, religion, color, sex or national origin. Such actions shall
include, but not be limited to, the following: employment, upgrading, promotion,
demotion, disciplining or transfer; recruitment or recruitment advertising; layoff or
termination; rates of pay or other forms of compensation; selection for training,
including apprenticeship; and other terms and conditions for employment. (Res.
1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)
Sec. 5. Nondiscrimination in Contracts, Purchase Orders and Agreements. All
contracts, purchase orders or agreements subject to the Urban Mass Transportation
Act of 1964, as amended, (49 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) shall be subject to all rules and/or
regulations issued pursuant thereto regarding nondiscrimination in Federally assisted
programs of the United States Department of Transportation.
In all solicitations, either by competitive bidding or negotiations, made by the
Authority for work to be performed under a contract, subcontract, purchase order or
agreement, including, but not limited to, procurement of materials, services or
equipment, the Authority shall receive an affidavit from the supplier that the supplier
does not and will not discriminate in its employment practices because of race, religion,
color, sex or national origin. The Authority will include in its specifications in
connection such contract, subcontract, purchase order or agreement, a requirement
that prior to an award of such contract, subcontract, purchase order or agreement that
an affirmative action plan to provide equal employment opportunities must be provided
to the Authority for its consideration. (Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)

1991 Replacement

 BYLAWS OF THE G.C.R.T.A.

22

ARTICLE VIII
Administration and Employment
Sec. 1. Authority of General Manager. The General Manager shall be the chief
executive, operating and administrative officer of the Authority. He or she shall
possess such power and authority as enumerated in Article II, Section 8. (Res. 1988-38.
Passed 2-16-88.)
Sec 2. Employment Generally. The General Manager is hereby authorized to employ
from time to time on a temporary basis craftsmen and clerical personnel as may be
necessary to carry out the operations and programs of the Authority. The General
Manager shall be governed by the Personnel Policies and Procedures as adopted by the
Board in his or her dealings with permanent and/or full-time employees. The General
Manager shall fix the amount, if any, to be paid as reasonable and necessary expenses
in connection with the employment of persons employed, including, but not limited to,
expenses of such person incurred in moving from a former location to undertake such
employment. All personnel must be paid from appropriations made for such personnel
by the Board or from appropriations made by the Board for operating expenses or
capital improvements when the services of such personnel are utilized with respect
thereto. (Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)
Sec. 3. Position of Permanent Employment. The Board shall establish positions
of permanent employment from time to time for such management, professional and
technical personnel as may be necessary to carry out the operations and program of the
Authority. The General Manager is hereby authorized to employ and discharge with
cause personnel for such positions and to prescribe their authority and duties. No such
employment shall occur unless the Board has first created the position and established
the compensation range for such grade, if the position is classified, or for such position,
if it is unclassified. (Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)
Sec. 4. Table of Organization; Establishment of Departments; Salaries. The
General Manager may from time to time establish a table of organization and create
such departments as he or she may deem necessary to carry on the functions of the
Authority. Except as above provided, and as by the pay plans for hourly and salaried
employees, salaries of all personnel employed shall be fixed by the General Manager
within the salary ranges prescribed by the Board and shall be reviewed by the General
Manager annually. (Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)

2014A Replacement (N/C)

 23

BYLAWS OF THE G.C.R.T.A.

Sec. 5. Internal Audit Department. Notwithstanding any other provision of these
Bylaws, the Board shall maintain an Internal Audit Department, led by a Director of
Internal Audit, who shall report functionally to the President of the Board of Trustees
and administratively to the General Manager. The Director of Internal Audit shall also
respond to requests for assistance from the General Manager, so long as those requests
are not inconsistent with the Director's responsibilities to the Board.
Sec. 6.
Personnel Decisions re Director of Internal Audit. All personnel
decisions regarding the Director of Internal Audit, including, but not limited to, hiring,
firing, promoting, demoting and salaries, shall be made by the General Manager only
after consultation with and approval of the Board. (Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)
Sec. 7. Personnel Provisions; Fringe Benefits. Except as above provided, office hours,
hours of work, holidays, vacations, sick leave, payment in lieu of vacation or sick leave,
military leave, funeral attendance, leave of absence without pay, medical insurance,
jury duty and reimbursement of expenses shall be established by the General Manager.
(Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)
ARTICLE IX
Construction, Codification and Indemnification
Sec. 1. Construction and Severability. Each of such sections as are herein set forth
and each provision thereof shall be construed, if possible, in a manner consistent with
the laws of the State and of the United States. If any clause, provision, paragraph,
subdivision, division or section hereof is held to be invalid, such holding of invalidity
shall not affect the remaining clauses, provisions, paragraphs, subdivisions, divisions
or sections, and these Bylaws shall be construed and enforced as if such illegal or
invalid clause, provision, paragraph, subdivision or section had not been contained
herein. (Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)
Sec. 2. Number, Gender and Tense. As used in these Bylaws, unless the context
otherwise requires:
(a) The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the singular.
(b) Words of one gender include the other genders.
(c) Words in the present tense include the future. (Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)
1993-A Replacement

 BYLAWS OF THE G.C.R.T.A.

24

Sec. 3. Codification. All amendments to these Bylaws, or to the Personnel Policies
and Procedures, and all other resolutions adopted by the Board of Trustees relating to
the governance, organization, personnel procedures or creation or discontinuation of
positions of employment shall be caused to be incorporated in the amended document,
and/or codified, by the Board. (Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)
Sec. 4. Indemnification. Each member of the Board and each officer or employee of
the Authority who was or is a party, or is threatened to be made a party, to any
threatened, pending or completed civil, criminal, administrative or investigative action,
suit or proceeding, other than an action by the Authority, by reason of the fact that he
or she is or was a trustee, officer or employee of the Authority, may be indemnified by
the Authority against expenses, including attorney's fees, costs of investigation, court
costs, judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably
incurred by him or her in connection with such action, suit or proceeding, if he or she
acted in good faith, in a manner that he or she reasonably believed to be in the
discharge of the official duties of his or her office or employment, for a lawful purpose
and not for a private purpose and in accordance with these bylaws and other applicable
rules, regulations and policies of the Authority, and, with respect to any criminal
action or proceeding, if he or she had no reasonable cause to believe that his or her
conduct was unlawful.
The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement
or conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not create, of
itself, a presumption that the person did not act in good faith, in a manner that he or
she reasonably believed to be in the discharge of the official duties of his or her office
or employment and for a lawful purpose and not for a private purpose, nor, with
respect to any criminal action or proceeding, a presumption that the person had
reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful.
Any person who expects to make a claim for indemnification under this section
shall give written notice of the existence and nature of the action, suit or proceeding
to which the person is a party, or threatened to be made a party, to the General
Manager/Secretary-Treasurer (or, if the General Manager/Secretary-Treasurer is the
person who expects to seek indemnification, to another officer designated to act in his
or her place) before incurring substantial expenses in connection with such action, suit
or proceeding, and shall thereafter furnish to the officer to whom such notice was given
such further information concerning the status of the action, suit or proceeding and
costs incurred and expected to be incurred by the person in connection therewith, as
the officer to whom the notice was given shall, from time to time, reasonably request.

1993-A Replacement

 25

BYLAWS OF THE G.C.R.T.A.

No claim for indemnification under this section will be considered unless it is filed not
later than one year from the date on which the action, suit or proceeding to which it
pertains has been completed, or on which a final judgment, decree or order has been
rendered and the period for any appeal from the same has expired.
Any attorney's fees paid by the Authority under this section shall not exceed
reasonable amounts for the actual services rendered and shall not in any case exceed
amounts calculated in accordance with the Authority's schedule of fees for outside
counsel to the Authority in effect at the time of the performance of the legal services
for which payment is claimed.
Except with the written approval of the General Manager/Secretary-Treasurer (or,
if the General Manager/Secretary-Treasurer is the person seeking indemnification,
another officer designated to act in his or her place) given prior to the commencement
of such legal services and upon good cause shown, no payments for attorney's fees and
expenses under this section will be made with respect to a single action or proceeding
to more than a single law office. Any statement for attorney's fees and expenses of a
law office submitted in connection with a claim for indemnification shall be in such
detail as the General Manager/Secretary-Treasurer or other officer having
responsibility for the initial review of such statement shall require. No payment will
be made for attorney's fees or other expenses that are determined by the Authority to
be duplicative or not reasonably necessary. As used in this section, "law office" means
a law firm that is a partnership of attorneys, a legal professional association or an
attorney who is a sole practitioner together with his or her employees who are
attorneys.
Attorney's fees and other expenses incurred by a member of the Board or by an
officer or employee in defending any action, suit or proceeding referred to in this
section may be paid by the Authority as they are incurred, in advance of the final
disposition of the action, suit or proceeding, as authorized by the Board in the specific
case, upon receipt of a commitment, satisfactory to the Board, by or on behalf of the
Board member, officer or employee, to repay the amount if it ultimately is determined
that he or she is not entitled to be indemnified by the Authority.
This section does not create any legal obligation on the part of the Authority
toward any member of the Board or to any officer or employee. The decision in each
case as to whether indemnification will apply shall be within the sole discretion of the
Board as provided herein. This section may be revoked or amended by the Board at any
time, and nothing herein shall be construed as constituting a condition or benefit of
employment or as an emolument of office.
Any indemnification under this section shall inure to the benefit of the
indemnified person's heirs, executors and administrators.
1993-A Replacement

 BYLAWS OF THE G.C.R.T.A.

26

This section does not apply in the case of any action, suit or proceeding in which
the Authority has the duty to indemnify members of the Board or officers or employees
as provided in Ohio R.C. 2744.07, or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code now
in effect or enacted hereafter that provides for the circumstances under which the
Authority has such a duty. (Res. 1993-58. Passed 3-16-93.)
ARTICLE X
Amendments and Prior Legislation
Sec. 1. Amendments. These Bylaws may be amended from time to time by a majority
vote of the members of the Board of Trustees, provided that no proposed amendment
shall be considered unless a written copy of such proposed amendment has been
furnished to each member of the Board at least fourteen days prior to the meeting at
which the proposed amendment is to be considered. Such fourteen-day period may be
waived if all members of the Board consent thereto either by a specific statement of
such waiver by each member entered in the minutes of the meeting at which such
amendment is considered or by a written waiver of such period executed either before
or after such meeting, or by a combination of the foregoing. (Res. 1988-38. Passed
2-16-88.)
Sec. 2.
Prior Legislation. Any bylaw or part thereof heretofore adopted by the
Board, which by law, by its terms, was to be effective until the adoption by the Board
of comprehensive bylaws, or is inconsistent with any of the provisions of the Bylaws
adopted by this resolution, is hereby repealed. (Res. 1988-38. Passed 2-16-88.)

1993-A Replacement

 