THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
REPORT OF THE PRESIDENT AND CEO
TO THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
REGULAR MEETING OF JANUARY 23, 2019

Executive
 MetroHealth has agreed to enhance health care operations for the three Cuyahoga County jails. E
Armond Budish and Dr. Boutros have agreed to an expanded, comprehensive health-care plan to
implemented in all the county’s correctional facilities. This is a change from the previous respons
health-care operations, which was divided between the Cuyahoga County Safety Department an
MetroHealth. This commitment by MetroHealth continues our mission of providing comprehensiv
care to everyone.
 MetroHealth has expanded its collaboration with Fisher-Titus to include critical care transportatio
Life Flight air and ground units will now be available to serve the north central Ohio region. A new
transport vehicle will be added to the existing fleet and be based in the Norwalk area. MetroHeal
now serving as the medical director of Fisher-Titus’ North Central EMS service. Along with regular
duties, this will allow for quality continuing education for staff and for management of protocols a
processes for patient care.
 A new federal regulation effective January 1, 2019, requires hospitals to publish their prices onlin
electronic medical records more accessible to patients. MetroHealth already has a history of post
frequently used services on our website. We’re now posting a more comprehensive list at
https://www.metrohealth.org/patients-and-visitors/hospital-charges
 Demolition of the Southpoint Parking Garage was completed on December 21 after only 10 hours
Over the next few weeks, teams will be focused on separating debris for recycling and removal.
another step closer toward breaking ground on our new hospital.
 Tina Arundel and John Campanelli, of MetroHealth’s communications team, produced an award-w
podcast, “Prescription for Hope.” The podcast features six episodes focusing on the opioid crisis
people at MetroHealth are working to battle the epidemic. The podcast won the Silver Cleveland
Award from the Public Relations Society of America’s Greater Cleveland Chapter.
 For the December holidays, MetroHealth again teamed up with the Western Reserve Area Agency
to distribute almost 1,000 turkeys to families in need. The “Turkey Blitz” was held at four MetroH
locations: Buckeye, Broadway, J. Glen Smith and main campus.
 Partnering with Turner Construction and Councilwoman Jasmin Santana, MetroHealth hosted “A S
th
Celebrate” for our W.
Street
25
community members. Our neighbors celebrated with hot cocoa, bak
goods, musical entertainment and a special tree lighting.

Chief of Staff
Survivor Recovery Services
 A competitive sealed proposal requesting formal partnerships for the Community Trauma Institut
released on January 14.
 Our team continues to take shape and grow in diverse ways. We are currently reviewing candida
Trauma Recovery Coach position recently left vacant due to Megen Simpson's promotion to mana
 We’re working with Strategy, The MetroHealth Foundation and Legal to create the internal frame
external vision of the Community Trauma Institute.
 Our annual report will be available in February. We know that we have served over 1,000 patient
screened over 4,000 for victimization and trauma this year. We have also seen marked improvem
system utilization within our patient population.
 The State of Ohio Attorney General's office has asked us to assist it in creating tools for statewid
of Trauma Recovery Centers. This is due in large part to our extensive and comprehensive data s
managed by Data Specialist Mark Kalina Jr. and the high volume of patients we serve compared w
of the state.

 



We have established formal partnerships and are finalizing MOUs with the following community a
and systems: Stella Maris, Ohio Guidestone, Frontline Service and Cornerstone of Hope.
Our first formal consultation with the city of Lyndhurst will take place in February; providing traum
informed approach training and competencies for the city and school district.
Sarah Hendrickson, Director, Community Trauma Institute, will speak at the Cleveland Leadership
and the Canopy Child Advocacy Center this month.

Faith Community Outreach
 To connect with the Hispanic community, the Office of Pastoral Care will establish a Hispanic Cler
Care Network this spring to provide training and information on chaplaincy and to increase the n
clergy formally linked to the Office of Pastoral Care to meet the spiritual needs of Hispanic patien
 Project Thrive, the faith-based pilot program to mitigate the effects of trauma, has seven East Sid
that have completed training and are now supporting families through the pilot. Project Thrive’s
period for the West Side is complete with eight churches and three non-profit organizations comm
training and helping to test the framework. An effort is underway to finalize and test evaluation m
to develop an online framework for training and collaboration.
 MetroHealth will soon host denominational and clergy meetings to showcase the work and future
the hospital and to increase collaboration with the faith community. Steps are underway to host a
United Pastors in Mission in March and the Evangelical Lutheran Church of America’s East and We
meetings in April.

Department of Public Safety
 MetroHealth and The Prentiss Center participated in a no-notice Northeast Ohio health care coali
exercise testing the ability of the region to absorb approximately 1,000 patients. MetroHealth wa
simulated evacuating hospital in 2017 and participated as a simulated receiving hospital in 2018
we would leverage bed spaces in our community-based hospitals, The Prentiss Center, ambulato
centers and other appropriate spaces to support a large influx of patients.
 As Ohio’s only Ebola Treatment Center, MetroHealth continues to participate in the state-wide Em
Pathogens committee with refinements to a transport and logistics coordination process that wou
throughout Ohio.

System Dyad
 The Dyad visited Fisher-Titus in Norwalk, Ohio. and met with senior leadership on November 29.
 Michael Stern sits on the Board of Great Lakes Science Center for 2019.
 The Dyad met with Metro Aviation after it conducted an Operational Assessment of our Life Fligh
on December 3.
 Dr. Bernard Boulanger attended Accountable Health Communities (AHC) Advisory Board Meeting
10.
 A Competitive Sealed Proposal was issued to establish a collaborative partner(s) for pediatric ser
 A new chair for the Department of Medicine, Dr. Richard Blinkhorn, was recruited. He will come o
May. Dr. Blinkhorn currently chairs the Department of Medicine at Albany Medical College.
 A Primary Care practice was opened in Medina.

Hospital Operations
 The Cleveland Heights Bikur Cholim room has been completed.
 The medical short stay unit is being relocated to the 10th floor to provide enhanced amenities fo
 Inpatient dialysis services are being expanded to improve patient satisfaction, quality and throug
 Additional telemetry boxes have been added to 9B/C to meet increasing demand for services.

Page 2 of 10

 Environmental Services
 Environmental Services reported the following personnel updates:
o A new supervisor with health care environmental experience was hired for the management t
improve processes within the operating rooms.
o The EVS management team was trained to respond to Code Orange as a response team.
o To achieve a goal for all EVS leaders to be licensed and certified in the Environmental Service
18-month leadership training program was initiated; current EVS leadership employees are re
maintain their license status to stay employed.
o EVS Manager Kathy Histed passed the CHESP (Certified Healthcare Environmental Services Pr
exam and is now certified.
o To be of service to the community during the holidays, the Department adopted a family and
Murtis Taylor’s Human Services and Pathway Caring for Children.
 To improve efficiency and ensure a safe and clean environment, the Environmental Services Dep
initiated the following processes:
o The Epic System was used to add group shower rooms to improve communication and docum
o A space inventory of the main campus hospital and satellites was conducted, and area assign
audited to support a reduction of 1.2 FTEs in 2019.
o A monthly internal customer rounding program was developed to maintain the progress made
satellites.
o In conjunction with nursing management and our dialysis vendor, a logistics process was crea
streamline dialysis patient transport and ensure that the predetermined, scheduled times are
maintained.

Food & Nutrition Services
 The department facilitated holiday meals for all employees across The MetroHealth System at ev
December.
 A survey was conducted to obtain feedback from current and potential customers regarding reta
service options and preferences with more than 1,700 responses received. Information will be us
enhance menus and services for 2019.
 The Market C convenience self-service employee market in Cleveland Heights was opened. This
the fifth and final opening for the System in 2018.

Pharmacy
 MetroHealth became the first hospital system in the State of Ohio to be a WIC- accepting (Wome
and Children) ambulatory pharmacy. Our main campus Plaza Retail Pharmacy began accepting th
program for hard-to-find specialized formulas for premature babies discharged from the hospital.
 Four of MetroHealth’s Pharmacy residents presented their original research at the National Vizien
Session and American Society of Health System Pharmacists Poster Session in Anaheim, Californ
December 2018. The residents who presented are Atem Fontem, PharmD; Hunter Reese, PharmD
Hoffman, PharmD; and Emily Doycich, PharmD.

Radiology
 The Main Campus MRI was granted American College of Radiology (ACR) accreditation.
 The Mammography Quality Standards Act (MQSA) inspection for mammography at Middleburg H
received 100 percent compliance.
 Middleburg Heights MRI volumes were 53.8 percent over target for the month and 36.4 percent o
for the year.
 The Systemwide Radioactive Materials Unannounced Triennial Survey was completed with four m
corrections needed and no requirement to follow up with the Ohio Department of Health.
Page 3 of 10

 Patient Access
 MyMetro implementation was successful for Pediatric Rheumatology, Dermatology, Ophthalmolo
Optometry and Dentistry to improve patient access and resolve patient requests on first call/con
allows Network Service Center (NSC) liaisons to schedule appointments at any clinic within The M
System for the specialties that the NSC services. The NSC also services Rheumatology, Hand/Up
and Primary Care providers. The NSC achieved a first contact resolution of 73.3 percent in the fo
of 2018 for Primary Care. In 2019, MyMetro will incorporate additional specialties including
Gastroenterology, Ob/Gyn, Spine, and Pain & Healing.
 The objectives of MyMetro are to make appointment access easy for our patients and more effec
caregivers resulting in the right appointment with the right provider at the right time. MyMetro w
the principles of patient-centric, reason-for-visit-based scheduling algorithms with the goal of firs
resolution. The long-term goal is to have one central phone number that patients can use to fulfi
appointment requests.
 If designed thoughtfully and in conjunction with our service lines, fulfilling patient requests on fir
a high-quality, customer-focused manner will ideally result in increased access for patients, incre
satisfaction, decreased scheduling errors and decreased Epic in-basket messages for providers.

Service Lines
Adult Health and Wellness
 Primary Care:
o Medina walk-in primary care site opened on December 10. It is the first out-of-county satellite
system.
o Crocker Park walk-in primary care services went live in December.
 Behavioral Health:
o Raman Marwaha, MD, was named residency director for the Department of Psychiatry.
o Lisa Ramirez, PhD, received an Early Career Psychologist award from the Cleveland Psychiatri
Association.
o Terry Stancin, PhD, was featured on the Sound of Ideas discussing transgender youth and Met
Pride program.
o Shivnaveen Bains, MD, onboarded in December and will be providing psychiatry services to c
adolescents at the main campus and Beachwood locations.
o The residency program was recognized in the GME annual report for having 100 percent of re
achieve scholarly activity.
 Geriatrics:
o A Community Collaborative Event was made possible with the Holiday Action Grant: Cookies &
with Santa was held on Saturday, December 8 – 190 kids plus adults attended.
o The Department of Geriatrics and the Old Brooklyn Collaborators held their 10th annual Cook
with Santa (Dr. James Campbell) event at the Old Brooklyn Campus on Saturday, December 8
about 190 kids that came to the event with their parents/grandparents/friends. At this event,
got goody bags, wrote letters to Santa, played games, got their faces painted, made holiday c
their pictures taken with Santa and had cookies and cocoa.

Cancer Care
 Behavioral Medicine placed a caregiver within the Cancer Center to begin assisting cancer patien
members with psychosocial needs.
 The Cancer Center Community Outreach team provided education to 3,733 individuals in 2018.
 The Cancer Research team hired Ashley Brittain, RN, to allow the program to continue to expand
within the MetroHealth System.

Page 4 of 10

 Emergency Services
 Emergency Services established a new relationship with Fisher Titus/North Central EMS and now
medical direction, serves as a preferred provider for critical care rotary transport and will be ope
a ground critical care unit to service Huron/Erie counties and surrounding areas.
 Metro Life Flight’s ground transport program continued its growth with record performance in 20
on expanded service offerings.

Neuro-Musculoskeletal
 Dr. DiLorenzo, a neurologist, started on January 7.
 Dr. Harry Hoyen will be transitioning his Orthopedic Hand practice to Middleburg Heights and Par
locations.

Specialty Care
 Nora Singer, MD, director of the Division of Rheumatology, was awarded The Pfizer Independent
Learning and Change. This funding will be used to create and implement a rheumatology fellows
curriculum for a nurse practitioner or a physician assistant.
 Successful reaccreditation of College of Anatomic Pathology survey for Dermatology surgery.
 Successful reaccreditation from the Intersocietal Accreditation Committee for extracranial cerebr
and peripheral arterial testing.

Surgery
 The volume of operating room cases done in 2018 surpassed the number for any previous year.
 The Ophthalmology and Optometry services implemented the My Metro initiative for patient acc
scheduling.

Trauma, Critical Care, Burns
 MetroHealth and Mercy Lorain had a site visit from the American College of Surgeons for Level 3
at the Mercy Lorain location in December.
 Trauma program managers for both Fisher Titus and Mercy Lorain have been hired to coordinate
trauma programs.
 MetroHealth physicians will begin partial coverage of the trauma program at Fisher Titus in Janua
 We are proud of our Trauma Quality report results from the past year. They have been published
found on our website.

Women and Children’s
 Labor and delivery nurse Judy Szerencsy was awarded the Daisy Award for outstanding nursing c
 MetroHealth delivered the first baby of the New Year in Cleveland.
 MetroHealth issued a CSP for pediatric services

Ambulatory Operations
 Middleburg Heights November Family Health Center held six flu clinics and vaccinated 291 patie
vaccination number of 3,265 patients this season so far in primary care. Express Care set a daily
record on December 26, treating 154 patients.
 Broadway Health Center hosted a Toys for Tots event. Staff and volunteers participated in this an
seasonal celebration where patients and community members were able to take pictures with Sa
wrapped gifts, stuffed animals and snacks. Remaining toys were distributed to ambulatory sites t
to children in need. Brecksville Health and Surgery Center also supported three families through
Domestic Violence Shelter, providing gifts.
 Buckeye Health Center will partner with local community resources to provide much-needed serv
patients and community members. Good Will, Providence House, the Cleveland Food Bank, the R
Page 5 of 10

 Center, ZR Consulting and Bellefaire JCB have been selected and will provide services on the firs
clinic. We look forward to working these valuable service providers.




Patient Engagement
o The MyChart steering committee achieved its 2018 stretch goal of 53 percent MyChart Ambu
activations. This is a 6 percent increase from 2017 or approximately 41,000 new patients on M
record 2,500 paperless billing statements were sent to patients via MyChart.
o Kiosks are live. For the five ambulatory sites that are using kiosks, an average of 5 percent of
appointments have been checked in via kiosk within the last 60 days. Patients appreciate the
and simplicity of checking themselves in especially during peak times.
Main Campus Family Medicine Clinic recognizes three employees -- Gail Schneider, RN; Brenda T
MTA; and Carmen Baeza, PSR -- for exceptional patient care. Through the leadership of these sta
the clinic was able to respond to a patient emergency, quickly facilitating transfer to the Emerge
Department.

Human Resources/Inclusion & Diversity
 Launched new HR Service Delivery Operating Model.
 Employee Resource Groups hosted 10 events in Q4, including:
o Women@Metro: “SHE-ROES” – Women Making a Difference in Northeast Ohio
o Diverse Nurse: Minority Nurse Recruitment Fair
o Veterans: Veterans Day Breakfast
o African American Alliance: Professional Development & How to Advance
 Presented REaL (Race Ethnicity and Language) Data Collection at the 43rd National Association o
Nurses Conference.
 Co-presented with Community Health Advocacy for the Ohio Hospital Association webinar – “Hea
at MetroHealth.”
 Updated English Usage Policy (HR-57).
Page 6 of 10

 



Published article entitled “Cultural, Spiritual and Environmental Influences on the Child” in Pediat
– The Critical Components of Nursing Care 2nd Edition.
Launched “The Transgender Patient” video in partnership with The Office of Medical Affairs to en
welcoming and affirming environment for all we serve.
MetroHealth recognized for Transgender Day of Remembrance Illumination Award as “2018 Best
Organization of the Year.”

Ethics and Compliance
 Submitted 114-page application for international ethics award.
 Reviewed and analyzed annual conflict of interest disclosure statements for 8,200 individuals.
 Finalized 2019 Ethics and Compliance Work Plan, a 13 percent increase in the number of projects
and 70 percent of the projects are new for 2019.
 Established multi-disciplinary HIPAA Corrective Action Committee to ensure consistency in correc
for privacy violations.

Legal
 Attention to documentation to support formation of new Federally Qualified Health Center (FQHC
 Completion of various legal documents to support operationalization of the Affiliation with Recov
Resources.
 Participation and distribution of Legal Department newsletter produced on patient consent issues
 Attention to addressing issues relating to jail medical operations reforms and preparation and ne
Memorandum of Understanding and other documentation.
 Attention to possible governance developments and modifications of certain governance arrange

Finance
 Enrollment on Wheels RV participated in 16 events, servicing 125 community members in Decem
Services provided are scheduling of medical clinic appointments, insurance education and assist
financial eligibility. There were seven events on the West Side and nine on the East Side.
 From January-December 2018, within the RV, we rendered 2,359 services to our community, see
members.
 Enrollment on Wheels partook in the System’s 2018 Holiday Grant opportunity. Contributions we
with St. Malachi, Metanoia Project and Northeast Ohio Coalition for the Homeless. 11,412 items r
from toiletries and towels to clothing were donated.
 RSM US LLP, the System’s external audit partner, will arrive on site January 14 to begin the 2018
statement audits. A financial statement audit will be completed for The MetroHealth System and
MetroHealth Foundation as well as the Select Assurance Captive LLC. No significant issues were
during preliminary testing last fall.
 MetroHealth’s Financial Reporting Team has evaluated the OPERS Comprehensive Annual Financi
and the accompanying actuarial reports. The impact of GASB 68 – Accounting and Financial Repo
Pensions, and GASB 75 – Accounting and Financial Reporting for Other Postemployment Benefits
been included in the year-end financial statements.
 The new enterprise financial forecasting application went live January 1 and was used to distribu
budget electronically to all service-line leadership.
 Operations Finance leadership is working closely with their service line counterparts to evaluate
interpret each business unit’s performance for December and 2018 year-end close. Based on the
Operations and Finance are updating achievement status of 2018 goals.
 Internal audit conducted risk assessment interviews in the fourth quarter and met with nearly 30
management and the senior leadership team. Internal Audit developed the 2019 Internal Audit p
was presented to the Audit and Compliance Committee of the Board of Trustees.
 Internal Audit partnered with Finance to establish and develop procedures for MetroHealth’s Fina
Reporting Disclosure Committee (FRDC). The procedures are similar to those used by public com
Page 7 of 10

 help ensure adequate internal controls over financial reporting. The FRDC commenced in January
during the 2018 year-end close process and will continue to meet on a quarterly basis.

Enterprise Data Analytics
 The Department of Operations Research and Analytics (DORA) recently hired MetroHealth’s first
Business Intelligence Applications. This individual elevates the System’s analytic capabilities wit
perspective on data warehousing, best-in-class tools and advanced analytics techniques, which a
deliver actionable insights regarding Systemwide performance.
 Partnering with representatives from Finance and Budget, DORA members have implemented the
modules of Allscripts EPSi, our new enterprise decision support, budgeting and financial planning

Enterprise Program Management Office
 The Enterprise Program Management Office (Enterprise PMO) implemented Multi-Factor Authenti
(MFA) for MetroHealth’s Microsoft Office 365 suite of products. MFA enhances the overall IT secur
by utilizing a combination of credentials to confirm employee identities. It also provides another
layer by preventing access from unknown devices such as computers and smartphones.
 The Enterprise PMO completed a modernization of the IT network, improving both security and p
for the enterprise. The network was redesigned and devices with the latest technology were inst
increase system reliability and decrease the chance for outages.

Information Technology (IT)
 MetroHealth joined the Northeast Ohio Cyber Consortium (NEOCC). NEOCC’s mission is to build
trusted network of public and private organizations across industries to enhance cybersecurity re
response, better protect digital assets, create safer and stronger communities, and advance tech
leadership of Northeast Ohio.
 Epic corporation awarded MetroHealth a $205,000 grant. The selection was based on the socioec
diversity of our patients, our perceived financial need and our contributions to the Epic communi
throughout the world, especially participation on Epic advisory boards and at Epic user-group me
the last year as well as contributions to clinical programs in Epic’s online library.
 A new email phishing simulation program called PhishMe is being deployed in January. This phish
will allow for testing of all MetroHealth employees on a monthly basis. The new program will allo
employees to quickly notify Information Services of suspicious emails within the exchange email
clicking on a blue fish icon on the screen.

Supply Chain
 Arlene Dudas, Senior Manager of Purchasing, was a guest speaker at the 2018 Success Her Way
Arlene provided insight on how to effectively compete for MetroHealth contract opportunities.
 Supply Chain executed a contract with Global Healthcare Exchange (GHX) to manage our item m
cleanse. This effort will significantly impact operations by immediately and systemically optimizi
data elements to safeguard pricing and to improve supply utilization.
 Supply Chain also executed a contract with AirGas for cylinder gas storage, delivery and mainten
the entire MetroHealth System. The service will eliminate work for clinicians, allowing them to fo
patient care and significantly improve compliance with The Joint Commission standards.
 The Purchasing Department continues to improve electronic transactions. Electronic ordering inc
percent month-over-month and 50 percent year-over-year. Electronic invoicing also improved 33
year-over-year. Additionally, exceptions delaying payment to suppliers have decreased to the po
MHS expects to soon be included in GHX’s “Best 50” classification of all health care systems usin
electronic trading exchange.

Page 8 of 10

 External Affairs
Reputation Management and Communications
 MetroHealth’s star rating on Glassdoor – the online site where employees rate their employers –
from 3.7 to 4.2 stars in calendar year 2018, and the CEO’s approval rating jumped from 85 perce
percent. For comparison, CCF’s overall rating on Glassdoor is 3.7 and its CEO approval is at 93 pe
UH, it’s 3.3 overall and 84 percent for CEO approval.
 Tina Arundel and John Campanelli, creators of MetroHealth’s first podcast, “Prescription for Hope
their expertise in an American Hospital Association webinar on January 16.
 For the first time, MetroHealth reached more than 10,000 followers on Facebook with 10,139 as o
That’s a 12 percent increase from January 2018.

Government Relations
Ended the year with significant policy and advocacy wins to help advance the system priorities.
Key achievements for the year included:
 Passing a state law to allow MetroHealth to expand services in new markets.
 Attracting new revenues to support physician services.
 Engaging Ohio senators’ help to secure visas for incoming medical residents.
 Earning local government zoning approval for MetroHealth new business development requests.

Community Engagement
 As of January 13, close to 7,200 MH employees have completed the Safe Sleep Heroes training. T
the target goal of 5,000. In partnership with First Year Cleveland, the training module will now be
other health systems, the county and community organizations and businesses.
 MetroHealth launched the second cohort of tables in the Open Table project.
 The Accountable Health Communities Project, in partnership with United Way’s 211 and funded b
went live in early December after four months in the pilot stage. Eligible patients in three MH are
Internal Medicine, H&V and Labor & Delivery -- who opt in for social determinants screening are a
participate in 211 navigation at an 88 percent rate. The top need identified was food, followed by
transportation and utilities.

Marketing and Communications
 The Major Events team planned and executed the third annual Cleveland Heritage Medal Awards
conjunction with the City of Cleveland in mid-November. The award is the city’s highest civilian h
bestowed upon individuals who have made a meritorious contribution to the welfare and develop
Cleveland and its citizens, through leadership, collaboration and service. The 2018 honorees incl
Cosgrove, Robert D. Gries, Steven A. Minter and Jerry Sue Thornton.
 MH saw measurable gains in overall image and awareness from 2015 to 2018.
 Results of Employee Communications survey showed 91 percent of employees feel informed of M
from 89 percent in 2017.

Foundation and System Philanthropy
 MetroHealth’s For All of Us $100 million campaign is moving forward with $36.9 million of the $4
committed to program and endowment and $5.5 million committed to capital. The Campaign Ca
partnership with the boards and staff, anticipates achieving $50 million by the end of 2019.
 MetroHealth has received an estate commitment of $1.16 million from the Rita Doubek Administ
This generous gift has been designated to the Terry R. White Legacy Fund which broadly supports
of MetroHealth.
 The Ohio Department of Health recently made a grant of $158,646 to support the PrEP program.
direction of Dr. Ann Avery, this initiative provides prophylactic medication to individuals at higher
contracting HIV.
Page 9 of 10

 





The Epic Charitable Fund contributed $32,000 to MetroHealth’s Creative Arts Therapy Program, a
with The Art Studio, which provides art therapy services to patients receiving outpatient cancer c
as inpatients in psychiatry, acute trauma and rehabilitation. Over the last two years, the Epic Ch
has contributed nearly $85,000 to MetroHealth.
The law firm of Dworken & Bernstein, through its Ohio Lawyers Give Back program, facilitated a g
$75,000 to establish the Dworken & Bernstein Patient Care Needs in Women’s Health Fund. Ohio
Give Back was founded by Dworken & Bernstein to distribute funds to worthy nonprofit organizat
promoting the use of cy pres in class action law suits. Dr. William Todia partnered with The Found
System Philanthropy team in securing this support.
Ana Rodriguez, Corporate Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer for Lubrizol Corpora
joined The MetroHealth Foundation Board of Directors.

Page 10 of 10

 