Summit County Opiate Task Force
Key Stakeholders Annual Meeting
Summit County Public Health Auditorium
1867 W. Market St. Suite A, Akron

MEETING NOTES 6/25/2018
ATTENDEES:
63 Community Stakeholders were in attendance.
MEETING MATERIALS:
The following meeting materials were distributed: Agenda, Data Dashboard Handouts, Informational
Brief: Development of a Collegiate Recovery Community, Keys to the Heart event flyer, 1st Annual
Ride Against Addiction flyer, Smart Recovery – Recovery Groups brochure, Addiction Resource Guide
GENERAL UPDATES:
China Darrington, the Opiate Task Force Project Coordinator, welcomed everyone to the meeting.
•
•
•
•

•

United Way Opiate Leadership Council – No report given.
IMAT Opiate Sequential Intercept Mapping Initiative – No report given.
Green Drug Task Force Report –No report was given. Justin Leonti was unable to attend, but
provided a report indicating there will be an Alternatives to Opioids in Pain Treatment public
meeting on October 3, 2018. More details will be given as the date grows closer.
Drug Safe Hudson Task Force Report - Jamie Messenger, the Hudson Drug and Alcohol
Community Resource Specialist, was unable to attend the meeting. It was reported that the
Task force continues to distribute Deterra bags and is working on closing the gap for getting
services. Call 330-822-HELP for more information. The group is also on Facebook and Twitter.
Summit County Public Health - Angela Genet, Summit County Public Health Coordinator,
reported on the expansion of Summit Safe needle exchange program and Project DAWN.
o Expansion of Summit Safe Needle Exchange Program – Syringe exchange services are
offered at SCPH during the same hours of Project DAWN every Wednesday from 3:00 pm
– 6:00 pm. No appointment is needed.
o Expansion of Project DAWN (Deaths Avoided With Naloxone) – A second clinic is now open
at 14oo S. Arlington Street, #28, Akron 44306. The clinic hours are from 3:00-6:00 pm
every Wednesday. Since it opened in April 2018, 95 Narcan kits have been given out, with
33 reported reversals. A total of 416 Narcan kits with 63 reported reversals have been
distributed by Public Health. A third site in Kenmore will be opening soon.

Mission: The Summit County Opiate Task Force is a group of key individuals and organizations committed to
reducing the tragic consequences of opiate abuse in Summit County through education, collaboration, and the wise
use of available resources.

 DATA DASHBOARD
• Emergency Room visits for Drug Overdoses show 2018 numbers are now falling below 2016
and 2017 numbers. One hundred and twelve (112) emergency room visits for drug overdoses
were reported in March 2018. Eighty-two (82) overdoses were reported in April 2018. One
hundred and four (104) overdoses were reported in May 2018 and so far eighty have been
reported.
• Preliminary data suggests there could be up to 41 drug overdose deaths in 2018 (1/1/2018 to
6/15/2018) and the official count for total drug overdose deaths that occurred in 2017 in
Summit County as of 3/5/2018 is 224.
• The OARRS (Ohio Automated Rx Reporting System) report continues to show a similar
decline in Opioid Doses Dispensed per capita to Ohio patient by County and Quarter as in
Montgomery County, which has a similar population to Summit County.
• The number of people who were educated about DAWN kits in 2018 is currently at 247, 222
people received a DAWN kit, and there were 23 known reversals.
• The wait time for detox continues to be at zero (0) due to the County of Summit ADM
increasing capacity, which eliminated a wait for Summit County residents.
• Residential wait times were reduced to at 26 days for men and 24 for females in Q1 of2018.
• Quick Response Team (QRT) data shows 33% received services after their visit in 2018 based
on annual reports. The currently monthly average for 2018 is 22% or fifty nine (59) people to
date. In 2017 monthly reports show 15% of those visited by QRT received services. The results
in Summit County are close to national data for 2017.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
• Policy & Advocacy Committee – Ms. Darrington reported the goals of the Policy and
Advocacy subcommittee are to identify strategic initiatives and programs proven to work
and advocate for their adoption. Another goal is to develop a plan to engage philanthropic
business and legislative support of funding or rules that support our community. There are
currently 30 opiate related bills on the house floor for consideration. The Policy and
Advocacy committee is focusing on the following legislation:
o Improving the Good Samaritan Law to ensure that individuals who experience an
overdose are following through with treatment recommendations.
o HB117 – Establishing Opioid Antagonist Therapy for Supervised Offenders
o HB167 - SB119- Opioid Prescription and Addiction Treatment
o SB66 - Expungement.
o SB154 – State of Emergency
o Next Policy & Advocacy subcommittee meeting: July 12, 2018 at 3:30PM at the ADM
Board offices.
• Family Supports – Ms. Darrington indicated that the group met at Cross Life Church. The
group is focusing on the following goals:
o Increasing education for families on addiction as a chronic disease and treatment
resources
o Increase support resources available to families.
• Public Awareness – Darryl Brake, Executive Director of Community Partnership of Summit
County reported that the Public Awareness committee revisited its goals which are to:

Mission: The Summit County Opiate Task Force is a group of key individuals and organizations committed to
reducing the tragic consequences of opiate abuse in Summit County through education, collaboration, and the wise
use of available resources.

 Improve the public’s understanding of where and how to get help for substance use
disorders.
o Increase engagement of people with substance use disorders in treatment. There will
be an upcoming public awareness campaign in an effort to decrease stigma.
o Increase awareness and involvement of the business community. Mr. Brake indicated
that addiction affects the bottom line of all companies.
Criminal Justice - Jack Davis, Chief of Police, City of Cuyahoga Falls, announced the goal of
the committee is to reduce access to heroin and other illegal opioids. The original goal was to
get DAWN kits to first responders, which has been largely accomplished. The committee is
also working on a better way to measure success and continually improving ways to reduce
fatalities.
o Next Criminal Justice meeting: August 14, 2018 at 2:30PM (Summit County Juvenile
Court, 650 Dan St Akron OH 44310 Conf Room A/B).
Healthcare Committee – Dana Nelson, Akron Children’s Hospital Administrative Director,
Maternal Fetal Medicine, reported that Akron Children’s began seeing an increase in babies
born with Neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS) in 2009, and they began working on how to
best help mothers and their babies. Phase I of the committee’s mission is to develop a
seamless path to addiction services and recovery that includes adequate capacity of
detoxification and residential treatment services. To help with that goal, Stephanie Strader
has been brought on as the new Program Manager of the Substance Use Disorder Program
at Akron Children’s Hospital. It was also noted that adult services detox and residential
services are down, but there has been an uptick in cocaine.
o Douglas Smith, MD, County of Summit ADM Board Chief Clinical Officer noted that the 5th
Annual Current Concepts in Integrated Health Care Conference will be held at Hilton
Fairlawn on November 3rd.
o Ms. Darrington also mentioned there was recently an article in the Akron Beacon Journal
regarding a new pilot program for coordination of care at Barberton ER.
o Next Healthcare Committee meeting: July 25, 2018 at 3PM (Akron Children’s Hospital –
Maternal Fetal Medicine Considine Building – Suite 5500)
Youth and Young Adults - Updates are as follows:
o Community Support Team: Kimberly Patton reported that the group is reviewing existing
addiction and mental health resources and identifying what addiction services are
needed. The group hopes to develop an app to help individuals access those services and
sober activities.
o Recovery High School Team Update: A proposal for a new recovery high school has been
developed. Funding and a champion for the project are needed to bring the project to
fruition.
o School Supports Team: The group recently compiled 40 surveys about support, including
what is available now and what is needed. A school based prevention matrix is being
updated as a resource. The group will be meeting again on June 26, 2018 to strategize.
o

•

•

•

The next quarterly meeting of the Youth & Young Adults Subcommittee will take place on
September 5, 2018 at 4:00 pm in the SCPH Auditorium.
GENERAL ANNOUNCEMENTS & UPCOMING EVENTS
• David Monter and Nicole Minor of the University of Akron Roos in Recovery program
announced there would be a picnic on July 21 on the University’s campus that is open to

Mission: The Summit County Opiate Task Force is a group of key individuals and organizations committed to
reducing the tragic consequences of opiate abuse in Summit County through education, collaboration, and the wise
use of available resources.

 •
•

•
•
•

•

anyone in recovery. The group’s focus is on hope and is a platform for social engagement
providing for an authentic collegiate experience.
Ms. Darrington asked that everyone like, share and submit information on the Summit
County Opiate Taskforce Facebook page. The link will be sent to everyone on the Opiate Task
Force distribution list.
Aimee Wade, County of Summit ADM Board Associate Director of Clinical Services
announced that the 2018 Youth Risk Behavioral Survey is being completed in partnership
with Case Western Reserve University. Case will be meeting with all the Summit County
schools to gear up for the 2018 survey. An 80% response rate was received last year.
Jackie Kell, a chronic pain sufferer, spoke about the restrictive prescription policies in Ohio
and said there has been an increase in suffering, depression and suicide in the chronic pain
community.
Scott Smith spoke about SMART Recovery groups which meet every Thursday from 7-8:30
pm at 101 5th Street SE, Suite D, Barberton OH 44201. For more information call 330-617-8968
Catey Breck Colon from Congressman Tim Ryan’s office and Leah Jones from Senator
Sharrod Brown’s office reported that there is bipartisan support of several initiatives
including expanding Medicaid programs and MAT. Everyone was encouraged to sign up for
updates with their elected officials.
Brenda Ryan announced there would be a Keys to the Heart event to support grieving
children and families who have been affected by the opiate crisis on August 5, from 11:00 am 5:00 pm at the Cuyahoga Falls Moose Lodge. More information can be found on the Keys to
Serenity Facebook page.

NEXT OTF MEETING DATE: Monday, September 17, 2018 (All Meetings begin at 4PM)

Mission: The Summit County Opiate Task Force is a group of key individuals and organizations committed to
reducing the tragic consequences of opiate abuse in Summit County through education, collaboration, and the wise
use of available resources.

 