THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
REPORT OF THE PRESIDENT AND CEO
TO THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
REGULAR MEETING OF JULY 25, 2018

Executive
 Our Annual Stakeholders Meeting, held on June 29 at the Huntington Convention Center, was
resounding success with nearly 600 attendees. We received 225 completed surveys and 98 pe
ranked the event a 4 or 5 out of 5. They’re talking about the design of the new hospital and th
initiatives we’ve embarked on to do our part to curb the opioid crisis; they’re talking about ou
community trauma institute aimed at healing neighborhoods that need economic developmen
opportunity; and they’re talking about MetroHealth and everything we’re doing to be good nei
in our community.
 MetroHealth is proud to host several programs throughout 2018 in honor of the most Rev. Mar
Luther King Jr. and his commitment to social and economic justice. As you are aware, 2018 ma
th
50th anniversary of the death of Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. as well
anniversary
as the 50 of the Poor
People’s Campaign and March. The first of these events was held in June and was well attende
will certainly keep you updated with news of upcoming events as the details unfold.
 MetroHealth unveiled a new external website (www.metrohealth.org) this month. The site has
rebuilt on a new platform that will enable a more personalized experience for patients and vis
 MetroHealth has been awarded the American Heart Association’s Get With the Guidelines Hea
Failure Gold Plus Quality Achievement Award.
 MetroHealth partnered with Sherwin-Williams and the Metro West Community Development
th
Organization to restore the mural on the corner of Clark Avenue
Street.
and West
The25
mural,
entitled “It’s Up to Us,” was vandalized last November.
 We welcome David Fiser as our Vice President and Chief Information Officer. David will oversee
leadership and strategic direction of MetroHealth’s information technology systems.
 I am humbled to have been nominated for the 100 Most Influential People in Healthcare award
 MetroHealth’s Department of Public Safety Gun Safety Task Force has distributed more than 2
locks within the community.
 Mary Vargo, MD, Director of Cancer Rehabilitation and Electrodiagnostic Medicine in the Depar
of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation has been promoted to Professor of PM&R at CASE. She
first female faculty in the department to achieve this academic rank, the highest possible at t
university.
 We are pleased to announce the successful recruitment of Dr. Gregory Heintschel as our new
Oral Health and Oral Surgery, effective August 27.
 The Psychology Residency Program was awarded full accreditation status by the American
Psychological Association Commission on Accreditation.

Chief of Staf
 Police officers have saved nine lives on the MetroHealth campus using Narcan and distributed
public 400 doses of Narcan since the Stakeholders meeting.
 Drug drop boxes are being installed at Parma Medical Center and Cleveland Heights Medical C
 A hybrid full-scale exercise testing the Ohio State Burn Surge Plan was conducted in May. Toge
other Public Safety agencies, this exercise tested MetroHealth’s teams in a coordinated largecasualty incident. A functional exercise was also conducted for the main campus Emergency

 



Department on a reorganized approach to an influx of trauma patients. Changes include lesso
learned from real-world casualties, including the mass shooting in Las Vegas.
MetroHealth was principal planner for the Northeast Ohio MMRS Meta-Coalition Conference wi
attendees participating. The conference covered a wide variety of topics including mass evacu
skilled nursing facilities and how to manage, monitor and leverage social media platforms dur
calamity.
MetroHealth representatives from emergency management, Emergency Department and Phar
attended a general briefing on the distribution of medical counter-measures during a chemica
or industrial accident involving organophosphates utilizing so-called chempaks that would trea
potentially hundreds of victims.

System Dyad


Bernie Boulanger, MD, participated in Crain’s Healthcare Forum as one of the keynote panelist
noted healthcare executives on the panel were William Considine, CEO, Akron Children’s Hosp
Theodoros Teknos, President and Scientific Officer, UH Sideman Cancer Center; Tom Strauss, P
and CEO, Sisters of Charity; and Dr. James Young, Chief Academic Officer, Cleveland Clinic.

Hospital Operations




The Comprehensive Stroke Survey was completed July 9 and 10, and we are preparing for
Joint Commission Survey.
Progress continues for the Bikur Cholim room at Cleveland Heights.
The Get-Well Network’s advanced entertainment options have been implemented and are
well.

Environmental Services
 Three Environmental Services employees were honored with Nursing Star Awards: Milka
Dekontee Davies and LaShawn Kitchen.
 Billie Shamblin (Middleburg Heights) received the 2018 Nursing Excellence Award for bei
outstanding friend of Nursing.
 The department received the 100 percent Hand Hygiene Award from the Quality and Safe
Team.

Pathology
 The department transitioned to a new two-step process for the identification of Clostridiu
Difficile Infection.
 Transitioned to a new molecular diagnostic assay to aid in the rapid identification of blood
pathogens from positive cultures. The average time from blood culture collection to orga
identification was improved from 55 to 17 hours with this new assay.

Pharmacy

Meds-to-Beds Discharge Prescription Program is trending growth with a 147 percent inc
in patients and a 142 percent increase in prescriptions in 2018 compared to 2017. The
program is now active at main campus, Old Brooklyn Rehab, Parma Inpatient and Cleve
Heights Inpatient.
Mail Order Pharmacy continues to grow with a 138 percent increase in prescriptions.

Medication Therapy Management Retail Clinical revenue growth is 53 percent increase


Tara Nagaraj, PharmD, has been named recipient of the Toby Clark Resident Research A
a recognition from Ohio Northern University’s Raabe College of Pharmacy.
Page 2 of 8

 Food & Nutrition Services
In the annual review of our Diabetes Self-Management Program, 76 percent of patients

completing the program showed a decrease of greater than 0.1 in their A1c.

Textile Care, Logistics
 The department purchased 46 new wheelchairs from a local, female-owned company. T
wheelchairs are designed with several ergonomic features to improve both the patient
employee experience.
Service Lines

Adult Health and Wellness
 Drs. Michelle Nemer and Atsuko Yamahiro are the new Co-Directors for the Primary Care
Vulnerable Populations Track. The PCVP Track looks to attract physicians for underserved
communities and vulnerable populations.
 2017 MH Provider Communication Award Recipients include Drs. Louise Sieben, David M
David Kuentz, Natalie Hinchcliffe, Dennis Grossman, Anthony Finizia, Shari Bolen, Martin
Binstock, Rochele Beachy, Nathan Beachy, Patricia Campbell, Mary Corrigan and Carolyn
and APRNs Susann Telmanik and Marion Craig.
 Community events included Pedal for Prizes, Annual Senior Day Downtown rdPublic Square
Annual Senior Olympics, MH-sponsored Senior Prom at Ariel Pearl Center, Cleveland Divi
Fire Open House Event and Ice Cream Social.
 The department of Psychiatry collaborated with other Service Lines to develop and subm
RFP to Cuyahoga County for Comprehensive Medical Services for Families Involved with
Department of Children and Family Services.
 Britt Nielsen, PsyD, Psychologist, applied for a supplement to the US Health Resources &
Services Administration (HRSA) Behavioral Health Workforce Education and Training (BH
Program that will focus on substance abuse and health psychology and add two adult
psychology doctoral resident slots. Dr. Nielsen was also awarded the 2018 Helen Evans
Career Faculty Development Award from the women faculty of the School of Medicine at
 Collaborated with Maureen Dee, executive director of Catholic Charities, and MetroHealt
Trustee along with Jim Joyner from Joyner and Associates to host their family education g
for opioid addiction at our Parma offices.
 Terry Stancin, PhD, Chief of Psychology, was elected to the American Psychological Asso
Council of Representatives.

Cancer Care
th
 Proceeds from the
Annual
7
Brett Altieri Memorial Golf Outing held on June 29 will support
comfort care items for patients and their families.
 The Cancer Care Community Outreach team hosted a Health Fair at MetroHealth Bedford
Medical Offices. Over 160 people attended the event on June 9.

Emergency Services
 A new service line exclusively for Emergency Services was launched effective July 1. Bri
who has successfully led Essential Services for the last two years, will serve as administ
director. Chuck Emerman, MD, will serve as clinical director, while maintaining his curren
as chair of Emergency Medicine.
 MetroHealth has been designated a National Association of Emergency Medical Technicia
training center. This designation allows MH to teach EMT courses to local fire departmen
Page 3 of 8

 

Our Community Emergency Departments continue to exceed projected budget.

Neuro-Musculoskeletal
 The Pain & Healing Center officially opened on June 26. A new physician order was crea
Epic to make it easier for our providers to refer patients to providers. A specifically assig
phone number 957-HEAL was created to track and monitor volumes.
 The Ohio Department of Health Coverdell Stroke Program prepared a benchmark report
2017 and noted that MetroHealth Comprehensive Stroke Center treats a younger, sicker
population of acute ischemic stroke patients and significantly higher percentage of very
hemorrhagic stroke patients in comparison with all Ohio hospitals and those national hos
using the GWTG registry. In eight of 10 quality metrics, we scored a higher rate of comp
than both the Ohio and the National hospital groups.
 Expanded Occupational Therapy hand coverage at Brecksville/Parma.
 We have a vocational counselor and driver’s rehab representative presenting at the Cuy
County Opportunities for Ohioans with Disabilities conference on July 11, 2018.
 We have hired and are orienting therapists to work in the Critical Care Pavilion in a progr
specifically address early mobilization. In collaboration with the physicians and nurses, t
program aims to decrease the patients’ length of stay in the CCP.

Specialty Care
 The Cardiovascular & Pulmonary Center received new designation from the Aetna Institu
Quality for Cardiac Medical Intervention, Cardiac Rhythm and Cardiac Surgery programs
recognizing experience, efficiency and clinical outcomes.
 Dr. Ronnie Fass of the Digestive Health Center spoke about colorectal cancer screening o
WVIZ’s Ideas. In collaboration with Adult Health & Wellness, Population Health and Patho
the team has increased screening rates among our patients by more than 15 percent in
year.
 Chronic Disease Management Center’s Jennifer McMillen Smith of Infectious Disease add
National HIV testing day on Ideastream’s The Sound of Ideas. In addition, Rheumatology
Dr. Marina Magrey published a forthcoming article in Lancet, highlighting the specialized
and research work done in MetroHealth’s Spondyloarthritis Clinic.
 Endocrinology implemented a new high-intensity diabetes management pilot program a
Broadway site to provide focused multidisciplinary clinical care and education to at-risk
Surgery
 Implemented a state-of-the-art MRI-guided system for prostate biopsies.
 Online seminar for bariatric surgery went live.
 New providers join MetroHealth in Optometry, Ophthalmology, Anesthesia and Urology.

Trauma, Critical Care, Burns
 We opened a six-bed Neurocritical Care unit and three additional Surgical Stepdown bed
 We hosted thend2Annual Resiliency Run/5K at MetroHealth to benefit patients and families
that were on the Trauma, Burn and Critical Care units. We had 250 participants, many o
were trauma survivors.
Women and Children’s
floor
thefor
4 families of children hospitalized at
 Ronald McDonald respite rooms opened thon
MetroHealth.
 Howard Hanna donated $30,000 for Pediatrics at MetroHealth.
th
mother
its 1,000
this year.
 The Mother and Child dependency program served
Page 4 of 8

 Ambulatory Operations
 The Discount Drug Mart sites kicked off summer camp and back-to- school sports physic
 A Skin Care Screening event was held in May with more than 60 people participating in t
event. Approximately 30 percent of the people screened required follow-up appointment
10 having serious skin cancer issues.
 The School Health Program (SHP) partnered with Arts in Medicine to pilot a new program
focusing on arts-based mental health prevention with adolescents. The SAFE Project (Stu
Are Free to Express) served over 250 students at two high schools and received addition
funding for expansion in the upcoming academic year.
 We are about halfway through our 2018 Front-end Modernization project that aims to de
27 kiosks throughout the Ambulatory Network. This will enhance both front-end operatio
well as the patient experience. The kiosks will run Epic’s Welcome application which allo
patient to solely check in from the convenience of a kiosk (at select locations). Patients
be able to sign up for MyChart and pay bills as part of the standard check-in workflow.
 In the month of June, over 6,000 bills were paid via MyChart! This is the most ever since
adoption of MyChart. The MyChart team was also able to implement paperless billing us
MyChart. A patient may now choose to receive statements electronically.
 MH School Health Program ended the academic year on June 24. For the 2017-2018 sch
we had 2,406 visits, which is an increase from the prior academic year.

Facilities
 Facilities Management experienced flood and power outages at several locations over the last
months. This includes a 2-inch water line that ruptured in Old Research Building, which resulte
$300,000 in damages to Social Work and Radiology.
 The hospital experienced a low-voltage condition affecting HVAC equipment when lightning hi
substation that serves the hospital. Several power outages caused by the excessive heat and
affected HVAC equipment throughout the System.

Ethics and Compliance
 Completed new Code of Conduct, “This is Who We Are,” in print and digital formats to be distr
all employees at annual ethics and compliance training.
 Developed training using scenario-based videos to incorporate into live training.
 Provided Ethics and Compliance education to new resident physicians.
 Completed implementation of new vendor to manage MEL, the MetroHealth Ethics Line.
 Collaborating with Revenue Cycle to create and implement a new audit scoring tool to ensure
compliance with physician documentation guidelines.

Legal
 Successfully resolved trademark infringement claim MetroHealth made against an infringer in
Washington DC.
 Continued preparations for the Owner-Controlled Insurance Program for the Transformation.

Nursing
 A new affiliation agreement between Case Western Reserve University and The MetroHealth S
will give nursing students more clinical and research opportunities. As part of the agreement,
Nursing Officer Melissa Kline will serve as an Associate Dean for Clinical Affairs at the Nursing
The agreement will allow for a type of faculty designation for MetroHealth nurses "who activel
Page 5 of 8

 

participate in collaborative training, education and research with CWRU students and faculty,"
said.
Molly McNett, PhD, RN, has received fellowship designation (FNCS) from The Neurocritical Car
Society. The honor recognizes exceptional service, academic excellence, leadership and
multidisciplinary practice in the field of neurocritical care. She is the first nurse at MetroHealth
this designation and one of only a few in the country. In her role as director of Nursing Researc
Evidence Based Practice at MetroHealth, Dr. McNett oversees nurse-led research and integrati
best evidence into practice and continues to advance program development and research in
neurocritical care.

Finance
 Craig Richmond was named one of Becker’s Hospital Review’s “150 hospital and health system
know” in 2018.
 Enrollment on Wheels RV participated in 24 events, servicing 108 community members in Jun
Services provided are scheduling of medical clinic appointments, insurance education and ass
with financial eligibility. There were 12 events on the West Side and 12 on the East Side.
 From January-June 2018, we rendered 1,105 services to our community and saw 738 member
the RV.
 The MetroHealth System recently received the Ohio Auditor of State award for the 2017 fiscal
This distinction is given to entities filing timely financial reports in accordance with GAAP and
clean audit report.
 MetroHealth received notification that the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services has app
Care Innovation and Community Improvement Program.
 The annual internal audit review of financial reporting controls has commenced earlier than or
planned. Timing was accelerated to allow finance and IT to focus more on requests received fr
external audit for year-end.

Enterprise Data Analytics
 The Department of Operations Research and Analytics (DORA) is now a contributor to the C
Quality Monthly Newsletter, providing a “Graph of the Month” to provoke thought and prov
insights on our business to a broad group of MetroHealth Associates. The most recent grap
depicted average payment and average length of stay for the top 15 diagnosis groupings.
 The DORA team and the Office of Patient Experience have launched a joint effort to study t
correlation between patient experience and utilization of MetroHealth services.
 Implementation of the Allscripts EPSi system (EPSi), our integrated financial analytics softw
suite, is now approaching 70 percent complete with all six modules in various stages of de
build and implementation. The new system will be used to prepare the 2019 budget.

Enterprise Program Management Office
 The Enterprise Program Management Office (Enterprise PMO) has reached 18 projects und
management and a project pipeline that continues to grow. The Enterprise PMO continues
navigating to complete the first phase of EcoDistricts certification, referred to as the Imper
Commitment, with a target date for the first phase of December 2018.

Information Technology (IT)
 The Case Management Module in Epic was implemented in June. This new workflow and
functionality enables our Case Managers to provide better care to our patients.
 The Local Administrator Password (LAPS) project has been completed. This application rand
the local administrator passwords of all machines to prevent an attacker from being able to
multiple machines on the network after compromising a single machine.
Page 6 of 8

 Supply Chain
 In partnership with information technology (IT), Supply Chain’s purchasing team successfu
deployed new VendorMate kiosks, increasing the footprint of kiosks from two locations at t
hospital campus to nine locations within the campus and several ambulatory sites. Vendor
vendor credentialing and compliance application.
 In collaboration with IT, EPMO, Interventional Radiology, Operations Finance and Revenue C
Supply Chain finalized a contract for Q-Sight, a web-based inventory management system
improved supply management and patient charge capture. Project kick-off is planned for A
and the planned project duration is four months.

External Afairs
 Tracy Carter, VP for Government Relations, was selected to be a part of Leadership Cleveland
2019.
 MetroHealth was presenting sponsor at Taste of Tremont. MetroHealth’s School Health van wa
the Life Flight ground crew provided first aid and emergency transport, a Life Flight helicopter
over, MetroHealth Police and Gun Safety Task Force distributed 800 (total 2,100) gun locks an
Office of Opioid Safety distributed brochures.
 MetroHealth will co-host, with CCF, the Health Anchor Network convening in June 2019 in Clev
This will provide an opportunity for MetroHealth to position itself as a leader in a growing mov
to address the economic determinants of health.
 The first Mas VIDA class graduated July 9. This class is a collaboration with the Population Hea
Institute.
 Recruited 50 people and several companies interested in the Open Table project so far. Trainin
begin in late August with a go-live date in mid- to late September.
 The MH/United Way 211 Project (part of Accountable Health Communities grant) goes live July
Heart & Vascular, Internal Medicine and Labor & Delivery.
 Project Clean Sweep, the building clean-up initiative, has been placed on hold until the end of
Signs (including wayfinding) and stand design and construction continue.
 Annual Stakeholders Meeting:
- Nearly 600 attendees, up 250% vs. 2017
- 70% named the “speech overall” as what they enjoyed most
- 98% rated the event as a 4 or 5 on a 5-point; 87% rated it a 5
- 4,000+ views “Building a Brighter Future”
- 2,100 views of full-meeting video
- 400 Narcan kits distributed (entire supply)
- 43 signed up for the Open Table initiative, with several corporations interested in forming “
 Summer issue of SimplyWell is scheduled for a July mailing.
 A new Emergency Department campaign is launching this summer to continue to build aware
around our ED locations throughout the community.
 The August edition of Cleveland Magazine, featuring Cleveland area Top Doctors, will feature 1
MetroHealth doctors. MetroHealth digital ads will be running for a full year on the Cleveland.c
website in their “Find a Top Doctor” web page.

Foundation and System Philanthropy
 The Margaret and Richard Margolis Fund of the Jewish Federation of Cleveland recently contrib
major gift in support of MetroHealth’s Transformation. Mr. and Mrs. Margolis are longtime supp
Page 7 of 8

 






of MetroHealth, including the establishment, with other family members, of a $1 million endow
2004 in honor of Mrs. Margolis’ father, Benjamin Gerson.
The Ohio Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services has made a $60,000 grant to s
Medication Assisted Treatment (MAT) in MetroHealth’s Department of Emergency Medicine. Th
Department’s second grant for this initiative.
Jeanette L. Schroeder made her first $25 annual fund gift to MetroHealth in 1994. Since then,
Schroeder has been a consistent, generous contributor including a recent $10,000 gift in supp
MetroHealth’s Oncology Patient Care, Education and Research Fund.
The Third Federal Foundation has continued its commitment to MetroHealth’s School Health p
with a $100,000 grant. Third Federal was the initial funder of the program in 2013 and, to date
provided $175,000 in support.
The Fifth Third Foundation has continued its support of MetroHealth’s Employee Housing Progr
a grant of $25,000. To date, Fifth Third has provided over $100,000 in funding for this initiative
Since 1992, the Northern Ohio Fire Fighters have contributed over $1 million to support Metro
Burn Unit and recently continued their commitment with a $25,000 grant.
Plans for the spectacular GALA2018 on Saturday, October 6, at the Hilton Cleveland Downtow
underway and sponsorships and tables are going fast! Please contact Scott Hamilton at
shamilton@metrohealth.org for more information and to reserve your seat.

Page 8 of 8

 