THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES

DATE: Wednesday, June 12, 2019
TIBIE: 2:00 to 4:00 pm.
PLACE: MetroHealth Medical Center

K107, Business Services Building

CONIMITTEE Mr. McDonald and Dr. Silvers

TRUSTEES:

ADDITIONAL Ms. Whiting

TRUSTEES:

STAFF: D. Fiser, G. Himes, M. Phillips, C. Richmond, C. Forino Wahl
GUESTS: R. Barre, J. Mylen (KPMG), J. Croy (RSM)

Mr. McDonald called the meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee to order at 2:00 pm. Please
note that minutes are written to conform to the printed agenda and are not necessarily in the order of
discussion.

I.

II.

The minutes of the regular Audit and Compliance Committee meeting held on March 20, 2019
were approved as presented.

INFORMATION ITEMS

Mr. McDonald introduced Craig Richmond, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Of?cer who
provided an update regarding RSM our external auditors stating that services have been
approved and extended by the Ohio Auditor of State for another ?ve-year term. Mr. Richmond also
mentioned that NVS has been engaged as The MetroHealth System?s Construction Monitor stating
NVS will provide quarterly monitoring reports regarding the progress of construction of the
Transformation Project, which will be comprised of actual costs incurred and anticipated to be
incurred through completion through the year 2023. Mr. Richmond stated The MetroHealth System
was awarded the Ohio Auditor of State Award which is presented for excellence in ?nancial
reporting in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and compliance
with applicable laws for the ?scal year ended 2018.

Cheryl Forino Wahl, Senior Vice President, Chief Ethics and Compliance Of?cer provided an
update on the second quarter compliance program activities stating twenty?two percent of the
annual work plan has been completed. Ms. Wahl stated that MetroHealth reviewed the Ethisphere
analysis of its World?s Most Ethical Company application and developed an action plan to address
opportunities prior to submitting the 2020 application. Ms. Wahl mentioned that the Ethics and
Compliance department continues to make signi?cant progress on its 2019 goals. Compliance case
reports have increased over the last three months and the number of reports is 0.66 per 100
employees which is below the national benchmark of 1.4 reports per 100 employees. The number
of cases reported anonymously is below the national benchmark signaling that employees are
willing to identify themselves when speaking up about their compliance concerns. Ms. Wahl
mentioned that pending the Board?s approval at the next meeting, the Code of Conduct will be

Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting Minutes
June 12, 2019
Page 2 of 3

updated to remove reference to a retired policy and that the entire document is now available in
Spanish. Ms. Wahl shared that research?related con?icts of interest are now reviewed and managed
by the Ethics and Compliance department. Lastly, Ms. Wahl stated that a committee was formed to
address provider coding and documentation risk areas as well as a committee to enhance the
oversight of privacy and security risks associated with third-parties.

Jim Mylen, Partner with KPMG Advisory Services, serves as MetroHealth?s Director of Internal
Audit. Mr. Mylen introduced Robin Barre, Director, who is part of the Internal Audit team. Mr.
Mylen and Ms. Barre provided an update of the 2019 Internal Audit Plan and an overview of the
accomplishments and goals for the second quarter. Mr. Mylen proceeded with providing an update
on the second quarter 2019 Internal Audit Plan stating Internal Audit (IA) continues to perform

. quarterly analytics and auditing procedures for payroll, Infor segregation of duties, and procure to

I pay processes. Ms. Barre mentioned LA continues to support and participate in the ?nancial
reporting governance program and that RSM, MetroHealth?s external auditor, discussed
coordination and potential control reliance opportunities associated with the IT general controls
supporting financial reporting controls. Mr. Mylen stated IA will provide data analytics general
education training to the Ethics and Compliance team and that in response to survey feedback the
department has enhanced audit communication and improved report distribution with key
stakeholders. Ms. Barre stated that as MetroHealth continues to enhance their ?nancial reporting
and governance processes and that IA has worked with Finance to help establish and develop
procedures for a Financial Reporting Disclosure Committee (FRDC). The FRDC was implemented
in the fourth quarter of 201 8. Ms. Barre also stated the FRDC will oversee procedures similar to
those adopted by public companies to help ensure adequate internal controls over ?nancial
reporting as part of the Sarbanes?Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX) compliance programs. Mr. Mylen
mentioned that the 2019 Internal Audit Plan is on track and consists of ?fty-two projects. The plan
includes ?fteen internal audits that are coordinated with Ethics and Compliance.

Mr. Richmond introduced John Croy, RSM Senior Director and National Leader of Construction
Advisory Services, who provided an update on the Transformation Project construction cost review
services. Mr. Croy stated they continue to conduct reviews of the major vendors and
contractors participating in the project as well as participates in the pencil draw process (draw
invoice review). Mr. Croy indicated they reviewed the Guaranteed Maximum Price (GMP)
contract for Phase which was the second of three proposals to be executed. The review identi?ed
several adjustments which were applied to the ?nal GMP.

David Fiser, Vice President, Chief Information Officer, provided a Cyber Security Program update.
Mr. Fiser stated that Information Services continues to enhance the cyber phishing program and that
phishing tests have been completed for January through May. Mr. Fiser mentioned that
additional phishing and cyber education for employees was provided in March and April. Mr. Fiser
shared that Imprivata has been selected for the remote Multi-Factor Authentication solution. Mr.
Fiser also discussed that has been selected for a remote hosted Security Operations Center
(SOC). The SOC provides 24/7/365 monitoring of MetroHealth?s cyber security systems for threat
detection and on-site cyber remediation assistance with targeted completion in the fourth quarter of
2019. Mr. Fiser proceeded with providing an update on recent HIPAA Security and Cyber Maturity
Assessment with KPMG, MetroHealth?s Internal Auditors. KPMG recommended several areas of
opportunity to further enhance security posture and information services continues to establish an
overall plan and project initiation stages throughout 2019.

Mr. Fiser continued with his Information Technology (IT) update stating Information Services has
completed the Business Impact Analysis (BIA) reviews with various departments. As previously

discussed, Mr. Fiser mentioned MetroI-Iealth currently utilizes University Hospitals Elyria Medical
Center Data Center as the Disaster Recovery site and was noti?ed to vacate by December of 20 1 9.

Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting Minutes
June 12, 2019
Page 3 of 3

111.

Mr. Fiser discussed that the Involta Data Center which is a co-location site in Akron, Ohio has been
selected for hosting MetroHealth?s Disaster Recovery site. 1T has initiated the Disaster Recovery
data center move and is completing the procurement of the hardware, software and services for the
Disaster Recovery with a target completion in the third quarter of 2019. Mr. Fiser stated the
selection of the partner for a new Technology Strategic Plan has been completed. The three to ?ve?
year technology plan will be in alignment with the MetroHealth system strategic plan and estimated
to be completed by the end of the year.

A motion was made, seconded and passed to move the Committee into Executive Session to discuss
trade secrets and litigation matters. The Committee returned to regular session at 3:56 pm.
NON-CONSENT IACTION ITEMS

A. No items at this time

CONSENT ITEMS

A. A Recommendation to the MetroHealth System Board of Trustees for the Approval of the Code
of Conduct

The Committee unanimously approved the recommendation for full Board action.

There being no further business to bring before the Committee, the meeting was adjourned at 4:05 pm.

Respectfully submitted,

rai

mond

Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Of?cer

