BOARD OF TRUSTEES
The MetroHealth System
Date:

July 25, 2018

Time:

8:00 a.m.

Place:

The MetroHealth System Board Room

Present:

Ms. Anderson, Ms. Dee, Mr. Hurwitz, Mr. McDonald, Mr. Moss, Dr. Silvers, Ms. Whiting

Staff:

Dr. Boutros (via phone), Ms. Allen, Dr. Boulanger, Ms. Brown, Dr. Chehade, Mr. Jones,
Ms. Kline, Mr. Phillips, Ms. Platten, Mr. Richmond, Mr. Stern, Ms. Wahl, Dr. Watts,
Dr. Werner

Guests:

Mr. Brian M. O’Neill, Chair, Board of Directors, The MetroHealth Foundation

MINUTES OF MEETING
The meeting was called to order by Mr. McDonald at 8:00 a.m.
(The minutes are written in a format conforming to the printed meeting agenda for the convenience of
correlation, recognizing that some of the items were discussed out of sequence.)
1.

Minutes
The Board approved the Minutes of the Regular Meeting of May 23, 2018, and the Special
Meeting, March 20, 2018. RESOLUTION 19209.

2.

Consent Agenda
A.

Audit Committee
1. The Board unanimously approved a new Code of Conduct, titled “This Is Who We
Are”, substantially in the form attached as Exhibit A, subject to certain format
changes and edits which will not change the substantive terms of the Code.
RESOLUTION 19210.

B.

Community Engagement Committee – None

C.

Diversity and Inclusion Committee – No Meeting

D.

Executive Committee - None

E.

Facilities and Space Committee
1. The Board unanimously approved a further amendment of the agreement with
Turner Construction Company to provide additional pre-construction services to
support the design assist requirements for the Campus Transformation project. The
total fees for this additional work shall not exceed $782,314 for a total amended fee
amount not to exceed $15,055,139 to be paid out of capital funds previously
approved through Board Resolution 19088. RESOLUTION 19211.

 2. The Board unanimously approved a lease for space to establish a community-based
outpatient care location as more fully described in Attachment A. RESOLUTION
19212.
F.

Finance Committee
1. The Board unanimously approved certain capital improvements and purchases, for
the items, purposes, and aggregate costs as detailed in Attachment A, to be paid out
of available capital funds, and subsequently reimbursed through fund sources
indicated in Attachment A. RESOLUTION 19213.

G.

Legal and Government Relations Committee
1. The Board unanimously approved an amendment to the Bylaws for the Board of
Trustees to provide for the position of Chair-Elect to enhance the transition process
in connection with the succession of Board leadership. RESOLUTION 19214.

3.

H

Nominating Committee – None

I.

Patient Experience Committee – No Meeting

J.

Quality and Safety Committee – No Meeting

President and CEO’s Report
Dr. Boutros indicated his report was in the Board Book and thanked everyone for their
attendance and report at the Stakeholders Meeting on June 29, 2018. The Stakeholders Meeting
attendance was 50 percent greater than the prior year and had a significant impact in the
community. He reported MetroHealth is diligently pursuing work on the Community Trauma
Institute and continuing to collaborate with several agencies concerning opioids.

4.

Nursing/Magnet Report – Melissa Kline, Chief Nursing Officer
Ms. Kline began her report by recognizing Dr. Molly McNett receiving designation as a Fellow in
The Neurocritical Care Society, noting she is one of a handful of nurses receiving this designation
and was recognized for her leadership as Chair of the Guideline Development Committee for The
Neurocritical Care Society and for the Neurocritical Care Program she developed to train
advanced practice providers (APPs) in neurocritical care with Case Western Reserve University
School of Medicine. MetroHealth has expanded its partnership with the Case Western Reserve
University’s Frances Payne Bolton School of Nursing (CWRU Nursing School) with a new Affiliation
Agreement which will give MetroHealth the ability to appoint nurses to clinical positions, noting
that MetroHealth’s Chief Nursing Officer (Melissa Kline) will serve as an Associate Dean for
Clinical Affairs for the CWRU Nursing School at the MetroHealth campus.

5.

Medical Staff
A.

Report of Medical Staff President – Dr. Sandra Werner
Dr. Werner reported that the Medical Staff credentialed 23 active staff, 5 associate staff,
and 13 privileged non-members for a total of 41 credentials in the last several months
and the end of the academic year brought many contracts ending in resignations.
Dr. Mary Vargo, Director of Cancer Rehabilitation and Electrodiagnostic Medicine in the
Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (PM&R), was promoted to Professor
of PM&R at CWRU, noting she is the first woman faculty in the Department of PM&R to
2

 achieve the academic rank of Professor. Dr. Werner also stated that Drs. Alfred F.
Connors, Jr. and Joseph Tomashefski have retired after long years of service to
MetroHealth, and several physicians have received awards, noting Dr. Michael Raddock,
a Physician with the Department of Family Practice, is being awarded the Family
Medicine Educator of the Year Award from the Ohio Academy of Family Physicians on
August 18, 2018, and Dr. Britt Nielsen, Associate Professor of Psychiatry and Program
Director for the Clinical Child and Pediatric Psychology Residency Program, received the
2018 Helen Evans Mid-Career Faculty Development Award from the Women Faculty of
the Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine. Mr. McDonald made a motion
and the Board unanimously approved the Medical Staff appointments, actions and
reappointments, as well as the Medical Executive Committee Minutes of May 29, 2018,
and June 8, 2018.
B.

Approval of Medical Staff Appointments/Actions/Reappointments –
June/July 2018
1. The Board unanimously approved the Medical Staff Providers Appointments and
Actions for June/July 2018. RESOLUTION 19215.

C.

Medical Executive Committee Minutes – May 29, 2018, and June 8, 2018

D.

Report of Case Western Reserve, School of Medicine – Dr. Patricia Thomas
There was no report from Case Western Reserve School of Medicine in Dr. Thomas’
absence.

6.

Audit Committee
A.
Report of Committee Chairperson
Dr. Silvers began by asking Mr. Richmond to report due to the transition period with the
Chair of the Audit and Compliance Committee. Ms. Wahl began her Compliance update
stating that the new Code of Conduct replacing the Code of Ethical Behavior in place
since the middle 1990s and updated over time will be available in print and digital format
and are going to be published and distributed to all employees as part of the live
MetroHealth 2018 Compliance training. A review was made of the policies and
procedures and aligned with what is contained in the Code of Conduct, as well as a
presentation of Compliance’s recent accomplishments and activities. The new
MetroHealth Ethics Line (MEL) will be introduced to enable employees and patients to
report issues or problems and ask questions confidentially and anonymously and
feedback will be received on those reports that was not capable in the past. The
Compliance Department has been restructured and department heads are monitoring
activities and reporting those and educational goals in collaboration with the Internal
Audit group with positive results.
Mr. Richmond stated Jim Mylen, a Partner with KPMG and MetroHealth’s Director of
Internal Audit, provided an update: (1) making progress on approximately 30 internal
audits scheduled for the year, noting they are on track and on Target; (2) reviewed the
leveraging of data analytics to complete the internal audits, noting the capability of
expanding the data findings to cover an entire population; and (3) reviewed different
types of risk categories associated with the 30 internal audits, the risks being operational,
financial, focused on people and culture, IT and technology, quality and safety,
regulatory compliance, strategic and external. Michael Hsu, Senior Director of the IT
Department, provided a cyber security update involving educational awareness of the
professionals and staff as it relates to phishing or fraudulent emails, noting there is an
3

 opportunity for improvement on opening fictitious emails. KPMG has been engaged to
conduct a HIPAA risk assessment concerning cyber security. Lastly, John Croy, Director
at RSM and MetroHealth’s external auditor, provided an update of the construction cost
review services performed by RSM such as the close out stages associated with the
Critical Care Pavilion and large transformation projects and RSM’s performing monthly
reviews focused on different spending and invoices associated with the projects.
B.

7.

Non-Consent Agenda
1. Action Items – None
2. Information Items
a. 2018 Compliance Update
b. 2018 Internal Audit Update
c. Transformation Project Construction Cost Review
d. Cyber Security Update

Community Engagement Committee
A.

Report of Committee Chairperson
Mr. McDonald reported an update given on the five priority areas of the Community
Health Needs Assessment. Rev. Tony Minor invited Father Paul Abernathy from
Pittsburgh FOCUS to discuss Community Trauma along with several other local clergy,
noting that Father Abernathy’s presentation was very moving and making great progress
in Pittsburgh. Rev. Minor is focusing on creating a task force centered around
Community Trauma in Cleveland and will report further on its progress.

B.

Non-Consent Agenda
1. Action Items – None
2. Information Items
a. Progress Update on Five Priority Areas Identified in Community Health Needs
Assessment
b. Presentation on Community Trauma by Father Paul Abernathy, Orthodox
Christian Priest and Director, FOCUS Pittsburgh

8.

Diversity and Inclusion Committee – No Meeting

9.

Executive Committee – No Report

10

Facilities and Space Committee
A.

Report of Committee Chairperson
Mr. Jones reported to the Board in Mr. Monnolly’s absence. The Committee was
introduced to Rodney Elgie, the new Director of Planning Design and Construction, who
comes to MetroHealth from a private sector program management company and will
assist in addressing the routine capital facilities project that are non-transformation that
are being performed now or will likely occur over the next four or five years while the
new hospital is built. The View Road garage is still expected to be completed in
September and a tour for the Board Members will be scheduled in the next few months.
MetroHealth received a successful approval of the rezoning for multiple parcels and
properties. An example is the Southpoint garage that is being demolished and will be the
site for the new hospital; the Southpoint garage was zoned specifically for parking and
the new hospital could not be built unless it was rezoned. The property bordered by
Scranton Road, Valentine and near I71 is now two parcels and rezoned as IR for
4

 Industrial Research which enables MetroHealth to build a hospital. The section of the
property from Scranton, MetroHealth Drive, and I71 is zoned IR6 which allows us a 600foot height building on the property. While MetroHealth’s intention at this time is not to
do that, we erred on the side of caution as we were not sure the height of the hospital
during the rezoning period. The property between Valentine and MetroHealth Drive is
zoned IR3 which allows a building height of 115 feet, noting that is roughly the height of
the current Valentine garage. The Board Members approved some additions to the
design assist contractors as additions of sub-contractors are made that are reporting to
Turner Construction Company for the curtain wall, castle with concrete and the mass
excavation that will result in a huge hole this Fall that will become the site of the new
hospital. The widening of View Road between Scranton and Eglindale along
MetroHealth’s Southern and Eastern borders is being completed as the construction
access road to the campus to redirect construction vehicle access from normal traffic.
Karen Dethloff, Director of Facilities Management, gave an update to the current state of
affairs of the Medical Center, noting several outages and repairs becoming more frequent
as the existing buildings age, noting MetroHealth is somewhat in a race in building the
new hospital as the current hospital continues to deteriorate. Ms. Dethloff also reported
several promotions amongst her team and maintaining and retaining current staffing
which shows value for the organization. Sarah O’Keefe, Director of Sustainability, has
been actively engaged in moving MetroHealth’s sustainability efforts forward and
presented a brief overview on the concept of sustainability in health care, such as the
beginning of a recycling program from Cleveland Heights to the Main Campus. Ms.
O’Keefe reported on the work with the Lead Standard Leadership and Environmental
Design for the new campus which is part of the Campus Transformation design as well as
the WELL Certification. LEAD is sustainability for the facility, the buildings, the
infrastructure and how it performs, while WELL has to do with the health and well-being
of the occupants of those buildings the components it supports. She also reported our
submission of a letter of interest for participation in the Cuyahoga County Aggregate
Solar Project with the City of Cleveland’s climate action plan which identified the
Middleburg Heights site for possible participation.
B.

11.

Non-Consent Agenda
1. Action Items - None
2. Information Items
a. Campus Transformation Update
b. Facilities Management Update
c. Sustainability Update

Finance Committee
A.

Report of Committee Chairperson
Dr. Silvers reported the Finance Committee met on July 18, 2018, and Craig Richmond
not only discussed the financials but reviewed the Investment Committee and investment
strategy implementation. Accounting Pronouncements at the end of the year will be
recorded on our balance sheet, noting that MetroHealth is on its way to becoming a $1.2
billion revenue organization with approximately $2 billion of assets and is being lead
toward the path that was planned in terms of achieving targets.
Mr. Richmond stated the earnings before interest depreciation and amortization for the
six months ended June 30 were approximately $48.4 million and is 13.3 percent over the
prior year, noting the increase in earnings was attributed to the growth into four
Emergency Departments, the increase in patient acuity in the first quarter of 2018 due to
an aggressive flu season, surgical volumes growing year over year, and continued
5

 expansion of the pharmacy operations. Operating Income for the six months ended June
30 was $19 million and is approximately 24 percent greater than prior years. On July 10,
2018, the Investment Committee (a subcommittee of the Finance Committee) convened
after a lapse of a couple years due to the Investment Policy recently being approved by
Cuyahoga County Investment/Advisory Committee. Hartland, The MetroHealth System’s
financial investment advisors, reviewed with the Investment Committee the investment
approach and strategy, moving from fixed income and cash equivalent investments into
equities. As Dr. Silvers stated earlier, Geoff Himes, Vice President of Finance, reviewed a
few Accounting Pronouncements and standard updates: GASB 75 adopted in 2018 will
be treated similar to GASB 68 but focus on other post-employment benefits; GASB 87 to
be adopted in 2020 concerning accounting changes regarding the treatment of leases will
be shown on the balance sheet; and GASB 89 to be adopted in 2020 will change the
recording of interest costs to the period of time incurred.
B.

12.

Non-Consent Agenda
1. Action Items – None
2. Information Items
a. Interim Unaudited Financial and Operational Results for the Period Ending
June 30, 2018
b. 2018 Operating Performance Statistics and Ratios for the Period Ending June 30,
2018
c. Investment Approach and Implementation Strategy
d. Accounting Pronouncements and Standards Update

Legal and Government Relations Committee
A.

Report of Committee Chairperson
Ms. Whiting began her report regarding the Committee meeting noting there was an
update from Tracy Carter on the Ohio Legislature passing a bill which provided for
MetroHealth being able to expand into eight other counties beyond Cuyahoga County
which would position us to continue to serve those already being served, the ability to
sustain our organization, and to assist those in areas outside of Cuyahoga County that
have contacted MetroHealth, with the ability to serve others in Northeast Ohio. Ms.
Carter also provided additional information and discussion concerning the ability to
receive additional monies or enhanced reimbursement rates from Medicaid based on our
performance.
With respect to Risk Management, MetroHealth reported two significant claims from 2017
paid in 2018 and stated MetroHealth’s claim rate as excellent for an operation of our size,
noting the staff is to be applauded. Dr. Boutros reported that the number of claims and
number of open investigations is at an all-time low and further stated as of last year that
our cost for adjusted discharge was half of that of Northeast Ohio health systems in
terms of payments, litigation and insurance costs altogether.

B.

Non-Consent Agenda
1. Action Items - None
2. Information Items
a. Government Relations Update
b. Risk Management Report

6

 13.

Nominating Committee
A.

Report of Committee Chairperson
Ms. Dee reported in Mr. Monnolly’s absence. Ms. Dee indicated prior to
announcing the new slate of officers that an approval of the amendment of the
Bylaws of the Board of Trustees of The MetroHealth System was made to allow
for the creation of a Chair-Elect who will shadow the current Chairperson this
next year and take over as Chairperson upon the next term. Nominations were
made for Tom McDonald as Chairperson, Vanessa Whiting as Chair-Elect and
Secretary, and JB Silvers as Vice-Chairperson. Mr. McDonald informed the Board
that Vanessa Whiting will join him and Dr. Boutros in their biweekly meetings to
obtain interim reports concerning the management of the hospital. Mr. Phillips
informed the Board that the Legal and Government Relations Committee held on
June 13, 2018, proposed to amend the Bylaws to create the position of ChairElect with a very detailed list of duties, activities, and authority, noting that the
amendment to the Bylaws of the Board of Trustees was approved earlier in the
meeting as part of the Consent Agenda.

B.

Non-Consent Agenda
1. Action Items
a. Election of Presiding Officers of The MetroHealth System 2018-2019
Upon motion duly made and seconded, the Board unanimously approved the
following members of the Board of Trustees be elected officers of the Board for a
one-year term ending March 2019:
Thomas M. McDonald - Chairperson
Vanessa Whiting
- Chairperson-Elect & Secretary
J. B. Silvers
- Vice-Chairperson
RESOLUTION 19216.
2. Information Items - None

14.

Patient Experience Committee – No Meeting

15.

Quality and Safety Committee – No Meeting

16.

External Affairs Report – Elizabeth Allen, Senior Vice President, External Affairs
Ms. Allen began her report by reiterating what Dr. Boutros stated in his President’s Report earlier
concerning the Stakeholders Meeting held on June 29, 2018. Attendance at the Stakeholders
Meeting increased approximately 50 percent and theMetroHealth:
video
Building a brighter
futureshowing the demolition of the Southpoint garage and the building of the new hospital was
shown to further promote MetroHealth’s mission and vision, noting
the
MetroHealth:
Building a
video had approximately 4,000 views and the full Stakeholders Meeting video had
brighter future
approximately 2,100 views (https://www.metrohealth.org/about-us/annual-meeting). To also
take away the public stigma around opioid addiction, all 400 Narcan kits made available were
distributed to attendees and individuals from MetroHealth’s Public Safety and Office of Opioid
Safety reviewed instructions on how to use the Narcan kits distributed.

7

 MetroHealth launched a new website since the former website was five years old. Two major
changes to the website that should improve the patient experience are improved physician
directory search functions and scheduling online appointments with physicians for primary care.
The Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
s Series that MetroHealth is jointly hosting with
The Dream Endure
Cuyahoga Community College began with the first session
Highlights from a Conversation with
being held on June 19, 2018, and moderated by Leon Bibb, with Reverend Otis
Rev. Otis Moss. Jr
Moss Jr. discussing his personal experiences with Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., including Dr. King’s
officiating the wedding ceremony for Dr. and Mrs. Moss. Since MetroHealth announced its
adoption of an Open Table model in April 2018 to improve the health of the community and has
committed to launch 15 Tables to provide a support system resources to those in need of
creating change in their lives, Ms. Allen reported that 43 commitments have been received as
well as a few companies showing interest in sponsoring a whole table.
17.

Foundation and System Philanthropy Report – Kate Brown – President, The
MetroHealth Foundation and MHS Chief Development Officer
Ms. Brown provided two updates not included in the President’s Report. Food is Medicine is a
program that MetroHealth has been focused on developing the last year whereby a select group
of patients would be prescribed food as part of their post-discharge medical plan and determining
the impact on the patient’s health. Mt. Sinai Health Care Foundation has shown interest in
providing support for this program along with a partnership formed with the Cleveland Food
Bank. The pilot program will be a year-long period of time being monitored through Epic and
would begin with approximately 100 patients who have been an inpatient diagnosed with one of
the three chronic diseases: diabetes, hypertension or chronic heart failure; these patients will be
referred to MetroHealth’s new pantry/grocery store located in the Outpatient Pavilion and will
develop a partnership with a dietitian who will provide consultation and support in selecting
fruits, vegetables, and healthy durable goods for consumption.
Ms. Brown stated that Brian O’Neill, who had been introduced by Mr. McDonald at the beginning
of the meeting, is the new Chair of The MetroHealth Foundation. She stated that a survey had
been administered at the end of 2017 to all Foundation Board members and the focus over the
next 12 to 18 months will start with engaging the Foundation’s whole Board beginning with a
retreat to be held in November 2018. Dr. Kathryn Teng and Dr. Joseph Hanna were welcomed to
the Foundation Board at the main meeting held on May 31, 2018. Ms. Brown also discussed the
Foundation’s campaign of raising $100 million, $40 million focusing on “Capital” that will support
development primarily of the green space that will engage the community and $60 million toward
programs structured around health equity such as Food is Medicine, school health, Nurse Family
Partnership, building the endowment in support of our academic mission, and engagement of the
community.

Mr. McDonald informed the Board that not only is The MetroHealth Foundation Board having a retreat,
but The MetroHealth System Board of Trustees had been discussing a self-assessment retreat for a while,
and the System Board retreat was held on July 19 and 20, 2018. He noted the self-assessment survey
completed with the assistance of The Governance Institute prior to the System Board retreat revealed the
System Board needs some improvement such as communication with each other and understanding the
Medical Staff’s credentialing process and, to that end, the System Board will engage a consulting firm to
do a further assessment. Another announcement made by Mr. McDonald was that AJC Cleveland named
Dr. Akram Boutros the recipient of the 2018 Richard H. Adler Community Leadership Award and in
Dr. Boutros’ honor would encourage The MetroHealth System to invest in a promotional advertisement
for the October 15, 2018, presentation at the visionary level and requested a motion.
Upon a motion duly made and seconded, the Board unanimously agreed and approved that it is
appropriate and in the best interests of MetroHealth that MetroHealth participates in a sponsorship
donation for the Tribute Committee of the Richard H. Adler Community Leadership Award in conjunction
8

 with AJC Cleveland recognizing Dr. Boutros’ leadership at MetroHealth in connection with its impact on
the community in making this award. RESOLUTION 19217.
A motion was unanimously passed by roll call vote to go into Executive Session to discuss trade secrets
and confidential legal communications regarding pending litigation.
Following the Executive Session, the meeting reconvened in open session at approximately 10:00 a.m.
18.

Other Board Items
1. Approval to Further Amend the Architectural Services Agreement with HGA Architects and
Engineers, LLC as the Master Architect for Campus Transformation
The Chair reviewed with the Board the recommendation to further amend the agreement
with HGA Architects and Engineers, LLC as the Master Architect for the Campus
Transformation that had been reviewed in Executive Session and, there being no further
questions, proposed the following resolution.
The Board unanimously approved the further amendment of the agreement with HGA
Architects and Engineers, LLC to provide additional architectural and engineering services for
the Campus Transformation project. The total fees for this additional work shall not exceed
$634,018, for a total amended fee amount not to exceed $30,988,224 to be paid out of
capital funds previously approved through Board Resolution 19088. RESOLUTION 19218.
2. Approval of Modifications to Executive Compensation Methodology
The Chair reviewed with the Board the modifications to the executive compensation
methodology that had been reviewed in Executive Session and, there being no further
questions, proposed the following resolution.
The Board unanimously approved modifications to the executive compensation methodology
for an overall executive compensation program as such programs are customary and usual in
the nonprofit hospital field in Northeast Ohio and Sullivan Cotter had advised MetroHealth
that these modifications are appropriate and reasonable. RESOLUTION 19219.

The meeting adjourned at approximately 10:30 a.m.
NEXT MEETING:

September 26, 2018 (WEDNESDAY) – 8:00 a.m.
The MetroHealth System
Respectfully submitted,

Thomas McDonald, Chairperson

Akram Boutros, M.D., FACHE
President and Chief Executive Officer

9

 