THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
FACILITIES & SPACE COMMITTEE
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES

DATE:

Monday, March 25, 2019

TIME:

4:00 p.m.

PLACE:

MetroHealth Medical Center
SG-103, Center for Campus Transformation

COMMITTEE
TRUSTEES:

Mr. Monnolly, Mr. McDonald, J. Hairston, Jr.

STAFF:

A. Boutros, W. Jones, Dr. Brandt, B. Boulanger, J. Platten, K. Dethloff,
Laura McBride (on behalf of Sonja Rajki)

(ABSENT):

Ms. Dee, M. Phillips, C. Richmond, J. Jacono, M. Stern,

GUESTS:

Sarah O’Keeffe, Marvin Daniels

Mr. Monnolly called the regular meeting of the Facilities & Space Committee to order at 4:10 p.m. The
minutes are written in a format conforming to the printed meeting agenda for the convenience of
correlation, recognizing that some of the items were discussed out of sequence.
I.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES – NOVEMBER 26, 2018 MEETING
The minutes of the November 26, 2018 Facilities and Space Committee were approved as
presented.

II.

DISCUSSION ITEMS
A. Ms. Dethloff provided an update on the status of the Facilities Report to the Board.
Ms. Dethloff reported on the water main break that occurred on W. 14th which caused the
hospital to lose water pressure to all buildings except the boiler plant. The Water
Department was able to isolate the break and restore water pressure. There were numerous
electrical outages during the last three months due to unusually strong winds.
Promotions within the Facilities department consisted of Tony Johnson, Manager of
Facilities Compliance, passed his Certified Healthcare Facilities Manager test on the first
try. This is a challenging and comprehensive test with a <35% pass rate on the first try.
On March 18, a new Cleveland Heights Hospital Facilities Manager, Darren Dickson,
started, and on March 29 a new Director of Facilities Construction, Tom Moenich, will
start. Our Facilities Manager at our Parma Hospital accepted a promotion at another
hospital; recruiting is in process. Currently, there are four other manager vacancies. The
vacancy rate remains low at 5.2%.

 Facilities & Space Committee
March 25, 2019 Meeting Minutes

B. Ms. O’Keeffe Director of Sustainability, presented an abbreviated summary of the last year
of sustainability program's progress, including the creation of an internal Sustainability
Advisory Council comprised of leaders from across MetroHealth who prioritized and
outlined goals that align with Practice Greenhealth benchmarks in 11 focus areas.
The Sustainability Office gathered data from across the system to benchmark MetroHealth
Medical Center nationally against its peers. These slides show how MetroHealth Medical
Center performed in 2018 in the areas of landfill waste reduction, energy use reduction and
water use reduction as compared to various benchmarks from Healthier Hospitals (entrylevel goals for new sustainable healthcare programs), Practice Greenhealth (medians and
90th percentile for mature sustainable healthcare programs), and green building guidelines
the new hospital will follow. Sustainability goals set by the Sustainability Advisory Council
will be refined during 2019 to have specific targets and firm timelines.
MetroHealth is already on the path to pursue impactful leadership opportunities in
sustainable healthcare, including a continued commitment to the EcoDistricts, WELL and
LEED certification processes for the Campus and community transformations,
Environmentally Preferable Purchasing, Healthy Transportation initiatives and joining the
Health Care Climate Challenge through Health Care Without Harm.
C. Mr. Jones provided an update on the status of the progress on the Transformation Project
and Project Summary.
The Campus Transformation Project is on schedule and on budget. Since the last
committee meeting the demolition of the Southpoint garage connector bridge occurred on
December 12th, and the demolition of the Southpoint garage occurred on December 17th. In
February, site clearing, View Rd construction, and storm water and detention tank
installation began. Currently, the installation of storm water detention tanks has been
completed, and mass excavation for site shoring and CUP has commenced. On March 15th,
2019, the project received final design approval for the hospital tower.
The Transformation website (https://www.metrohealth.org/transformation) has been
enhanced, and now shows updated images of the exterior and interior of the hospital, a new
video animation giving a tour of the facility, and links to the three live webcams around the
construction site.
The second GMP (GMP B) is scheduled to be brought to the Facilities Committee and the
Board in May for approval. The scope of work will include the exterior enclosure, exterior
mock ups, roof, pneumatic tubes and vertical transportation.
Mr. Jones indicated key dates for the project’s next steps: The transition planning
engagement with HTS to define and identify to scope of the transition planning that will be
needed for the project, including, schedule, cost, and extent of internal resources that may
be needed will take place on March 26, 2019. The Campus Transformation
Groundbreaking Ceremony will take place on April 15, 2019. The MetroHealth
Stakeholders Meeting is scheduled for June 28, 2019. And the GMP C is scheduled for
July 2019.
III.

CONSENT ITEMS
A. Recommendation to the President and CEO of The MetroHealth System to approve the
further amended Construction Manager as Constructor Agreement with Turner
Construction Company as the Construction Manager at Risk for Campus Transformation
The Committee approved the recommendation for full Board action.

 Facilities & Space Committee
March 25, 2019 Meeting Minutes

B. Recommendation to the President and CEO of The MetroHealth System to approve the
further amended Architectural and Engineering Services Agreement with HGA Architects
and Engineers, LLC as the Master Architect for Campus Transformation.
The Committee approved the recommendation for full Board action.
C. Recommendation to the President and CEO of The MetroHealth System to approve the
Selection of Pre-Authorized Professionals.
The Committee approved the recommendation for full Board action.
D. Recommendation to the President and CEO of The MetroHealth System to approve the
Sublease to Establish an Ambulance Garage.
The Committee approved the recommendation for full Board action.
E. Recommendation to the President and CEO of The MetroHealth System to approve the a
Lease for Space Located in Cleveland, Ohio.
The Committee approved the recommendation for full Board action.
F.

Recommendation to the President and CEO of The MetroHealth System to approve the
amended agreement with Geotechnical Investigation/Engineering Consulting Services
with Intertek-Professional Services Industries, Inc. (PSI) for the Campus Transformation
Project.
The Committee approved the recommendation for full Board action.

IV.

NON-CONSENT / ACTION ITEMS
None

There being no further business to come before the Committee, the meeting was adjourned at 5:30 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,

Walter B. Jones, Jr.
Senior Vice President, Campus Transformation

 