THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
REPORT OF THE PRESIDENT AND CEO
TO THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
REGULAR MEETING OF JANUARY 24, 2018

Executive

MetroHealth’s two new hospitals, Parma with 16 inpatient beds and Cleveland Heights with 12 inp
beds, opened January 3 and 4 respectively. Both locations have been caring for inpatients since t
opening. Dr. Akram Boutros, Dr. Bernie Boulanger and Kim Svoboda, RN, participated in several p
TV interviews.

To date, the patient volume has met expectations. Approximately 50 percent of the admissions a
facilities are from the main campus emergency department due mostly to the influx of patients w
flu. Patient Experience has been outstanding. One patient told us he felt like he hit the lottery; an
like she was at a five-star hotel.

Speaking to the community about our strategic partnership proposal, I was a guest on WVIZ’s “id
talk about pursuing a strategic partnership, MetroHealth’s transformation and the new hospitals i
Cleveland Heights and Parma.

The new year brings with it a new Chief Quality Officer for MetroHealth. Welcome to Dr. Brook Wa
will lead MetroHealth’s Quality Institute and collaboratively lead quality management across the

I met with Congressman Jim Renacci in Washington in late December to discuss how protecting M
for our patients and health care reform can improve access and lower costs.

Crain’s Cleveland Business printed a supportive editorial highlighting our track record of leadersh
has resulted in significant improvement in our status, and urging others to trust our pursuit of pa
Although they singled out my leadership, it is, in fact, MetroHealth, its teams and board members
should be recognized. Together we have managed to bring out the best in employees, thereby po
MetroHealth for a financially sound future. Congratulations for the recognition to everyone!

Dr. Boutros served as Chair of The Arthritis Foundation’s Jingle Bell Run. MetroHealth teams and d
exceeded $45,000 and, overall, this year has been the most successful Jingle Bell Run in Northea
history.

System Dyad






Dan Lewis retired as Chief Operating Officer and started his new role as Executive-in-Residenc
Michael Stern transitioned to Chief Operating Officer, partnering with Dr. Bernie Boulanger, Ch
Clinical Officer, to continue the system dyad leadership.
A “New Day Cleveland” Program, which typically uses a casual conversational type of intervie
onsite at the Parma Hospital to film an informal conversation with Dr. Boulanger and Kim Svob
The conversation centered on the community benefits, the conditions the community hospital
treat and what patients can expect at MetroHealth’s new hospitals.
Dr. Alfred Connors began his work as Medicine’s Interim Chair on January 5.
National searches for new chairs of the Department of Medicine and the Department of Pathol
were kicked off.

 


The MetroHealth Research Strategic Planning Initiative was begun and is facilitated by BioEnte
MyMetro – A project aimed at enhancing patient access to MetroHealth providers -- expanded
& Upper Extremity and Rheumatology.
Service Line News

Adult Health and Wellness
 Year-end volumes and revenue were favorable.
 Finalized and executed MOU for Deployment to “A Place for Us” (Independent Living Facility
and older geared toward the LGBT population).
Cancer Care
 Radiation Oncology welcomed two new radiation therapists to support the growth of the pr
 10C Patient & Visitors waiting area will receive new furniture thanks to the Courts for Canc
and an anonymous donation.
 Magseed program for breast patients was implemented at the end of December. Program a
flexibility for Radiology and Surgery staff while providing a better experience for patients.
Neuro-Musculoskeletal
 Surgical cases YTD volumes are 8.6 percent above 2016.
 Outpatient therapy volumes YTD volumes are 8.6 percent above 2016.
 Over the past year, the Neuro-Musculoskeletal Service line answered over 243,000 patient
calls with an abandonment rate of 2.3 percent.
Specialty Care
 The Cardiovascular and Pulmonary Center experienced record outpatient volumes to end 2
including the highest number of cardiothoracic surgery cases in more than five years. The
kicked off a pilot project to proactively manage new referrals to provide improved access a
patient education.
 The Chronic Disease Management Center team achieved year-end improvements in Nephr
dialysis rounding workflows, embedding Palliative Care with medical specialties and develo
framework for a new model of intensive outpatient care for high-risk diabetic patients.
Surgery
 Exceeded target in surgical volumes for December.
 Achieved maximum for all goals for 2017.
Trauma, Critical Care, Burns
 We welcomed two new trauma surgeons on January 1: Laura Brown and Vanessa Ho.
 The NOTS Symposium was a success with 653 attendees, which exceeded target.
 A new Injury Prevention Coordinator to assist help outreach events was hired.
Women and Children’s
 New standardized physician templates for general pediatrics will be rolled out with the MyM
go live. The templates will allow for more availability after schools are dismissed.
 Pediatric Rheumatologist Dr. Hulya Bukulmez led the MetroHealth Pediatric team for the Jin
th
Run/Walk for Arthritis at Legacy Village on December
. The team
10 raised over $1,700.
 MetroHealth West 150 has added social work and additional breast surgery techniques ma
location a more comprehensive Women’s Health Center.

Ambulatory Operations
 Overall the ambulatory network maintains a trajectory to outpace targeted volumes as we
continual movement and availability of services in the outpatient sites.
Page 2 of 6

 








The Ambulatory float pool was given a grant to help the Foster Program. An anonymous do
purchased 38 backpacks that were then packed with new pajamas, socks, fleece blankets,
inspirational notecards, toiletries, pencils, journals, etc.
Parma Snow had a successful Parma Community Advisory Council meeting and employee
engagement event.
Broadway held a Toys for Tots event in December, which included a free picture with Santa
donated from The Reach Out and Read Greater Cleveland Board and an age/gender-approp
gift and snack.
Westlake Crocker Park held a holiday party that supported the collection of 100 pairs of soc
were donated to a nearby homeless shelter.
Broadway had a successful Vivitrol startup. Between October and December, 43 injections
given. This pilot is being evaluated with the other addiction programs to result in a compre
ambulatory offering for patients needing services.
OBC and Buckeye underwent a redesign of patient check-in and clinic workflow to better e
staff coverage and patient way-finding. The sites have had a positive response from staff a
patients after new centralized registration process.
Due to low patient volume, the MetroHealth Family Practice at the YMCA Galleria Downtow
be closing in February.
Three additional sites were integrated into the centralized forms process in which all clinic
forms are being fully completed by a remote central team. This program is creating enhan
patient and provider satisfaction.
Hospital Operations

Environmental Services
 Participating in Phase I of the move into Brooklyn Heights, Environmental Services staff tho
cleaned the Call Center’s space.
 In preparation for the opening of the Parma and Cleveland Heights hospitals, Environmenta
Services staff completed training in addition to routine and construction clean-up of the bu
including scrubbing, waxing, and buffing of the floors.

Food & Nutrition Services
 The department provided complimentary holiday meals for all employees throughout The
MetroHealth System.
 The department planned and implemented meal service work-arounds to accommodate th
hour power outage on December 16 in addition to their emergency response to the unplan
outage on December 3.

Textile Care, Logistics
 Logistics implemented a new patient transport process to prioritize the transport of dialysi
patients to the treatment areas. This process reduces nursing costs for delayed treatments
Essential Clinical & Diagnostic Services

 Five Fire and EMS departments were added under the medical direction of The MetroHealth
System in 2017.

Page 3 of 6

 Campus Transformation

Facilities Management
1. Work Volume through December 2017
a. 14% increase in Service Requests over 2016
b. 21% increase in Preventive Maintenance Work Orders over 2016
c. 19% overall increase in total Work Order Volume over 2016
2. Capital Projects
a. Projects initiated in 2017: 63 ($5,234,698)
3. Other significant accomplishments
a. During late December and early January, the area experienced one of the longest co
spells in recent history. The Cold Weather Playbook was activated and we weathered
period with no major freeze ups in occupied buildings. The only adverse conditions w
suppression system ruptures due to freezing in two garages.
b. The Zubizarreta House also experienced a frozen suppression line and some flooding
minor damage, which was repaired.
c. Facilities managed 158 utilities interruptions throughout 2017, with minimal impact
hospital operations. Events included a power outage, two frozen heating coils, two fr
suppression systems in garages and a motor failure.

Strategy and Business Development


The Strategy Team initiated an engagement with Socially Determined, Inc. to continue develo
Population Health efforts.

Legal



Completed regulatory filings for new remote locations of hospitals.
Finalized strategic vendor engagement with Socially Determined, Inc. to provide Phase 1 serv
focused on Comprehensive Primary Care Ohio and Ohio Department of Medicaid Episode of Ca
programs and leveraging other social determinant programs and opportunities.

Ethics and Compliance








Actively working with Marketing and Communications to determine what signs are required by
Project Clean Sweep, which will reduce or eliminate clutter and unprofessional signs from Met
facilities.
Assisting with the implementation and configuration of software to manage policies and proce
across the organization.
Collaborating with the Ohio Hospital Association to create standard release-of-information form
by all Ohio hospitals.
Revised policies to implement new Epic application, CareEverwhere, enabling international sh
de-identified patient information.
Trained and onboarded new 340B Program Manager on third-quarter Health Resources Service
Administration (HRSA) registration requirements.
Developed online 340B training for physicians.
Revising online compliance training for new hires.

Nursing


Nursing ended the year with 74.14 percent BSN, meeting our target goal of 72 percent (1,276
In addition, we have 9.7 percent who are currently enrolled in a BSN program.

Page 4 of 6

 




We had 65 nurses become certified in their specialties, meeting our stretch goal of 28.3 perce
nurses). In addition, 32 nurses completed a review course in December and we expect that th
take the exam before the end of first quarter.
Nurse Senate gave $1,000 scholarships to two very deserving recipients: one was to Rennotta
nurse in the Network Service Center in Parma. Renotta is the first person in her family to atten
and is now working on her master’s degree. She hopes to become a nursing leader at MetroHe
other recipient was Pamela Haba, a nurse in the Cancer Care Center. She has been at MetroHe
14 years and a nurse for 37. She put her dream of attaining a bachelor’s degree on hold when
became a single mother to her four sons. After putting them through college, she enrolled in a
program. She plans to continue working at MetroHealth after she completes her degree.
MetroHealth Medical Center in Parma and MetroHealth Medical Center in Cleveland Heights op
the beginning of January. The two Nurse Managers, Kimberlee Legarth and Melissa Dicenzo, an
Theresa Hannu, Associate CNO-Hospital Nursing, took on this project as stretch assignments.
great job, along with Kim Svoboda-Project Manager from Business Development, in preparing
nursing staff and units. Nursing staff are excited and engaged and patients report receiving gr

Finance







Enrollment on Wheels RV participated in 13 events, servicing 61 community members in Dece
There were seven events on the West Side and six on the East Side. We also continue to partn
Cuyahoga County to assist it with enrollment in the Medicaid Redetermination Program. From
December 2017 we rendered 2,254 services to our community, seeing 1,327 members within
RSM, MetroHealth’s external audit firm, will be onsite in January to begin field work for our 201
Financial Statement Audit. RSM will be auditing The MetroHealth System, The MetroHealth Fou
and the Select Assurance Captive LLC financials.
Plante Moran LLC continues to assist MetroHealth in evaluating our Cost Report filing methods
emphasis on Medicaid disproportionate share opportunities.
The 2018 internal audit plan was approved by the Audit Committee, and planning for 2018 pro
occur over the next few weeks. The risk-based internal audit plan includes reviews across all a
the organization including operational, information technology, financial and compliance proce

Department of Integration and Transformation (DoIT)
 The Department of Operations Research and Analytics (DORA) team members, along with
teams across the finance discipline, have begun the installation of a fully integrated solutio
support the functions of budgeting, long-range forecasting and cost accounting
 The department of Disruptive & Radical Experimentation (DARE) convened a group of “Acti
focus on improving the effectiveness of hybrid meetings where some staff are present and
room” while others call in from remote locations. These increasingly common hybrid meeti
present unique challenges for engagement and effectiveness.
 Results Management Office (RMO) is being re-branded as the Enterprise Project Manageme
Office (EPMO) in 2018. This department will focus on the disciplines of Project Managemen
Change Management and Knowledge Management. The combination of these three discipl
support the successful implementation of projects aligned with MetroHealth’s strategic
imperatives.

Information Technology (IT)
 Information Technology implemented a bar code scanning application for immunizations, a
that saves two million key strokes annually over the previous means of documentation and
improves patient safety.

Page 5 of 6

 External Affairs
 Community health priority: Conduct a pilot to address community trauma through the faith
community. To date, a group of pastors representing eight different churches from the Buckeye
Pleasant and Lee-Harvard neighborhoods have gathered twice at MetroHealth to work with us
an approach to addressing community trauma through their congregations.
 New MetroHealth Medical Centers in Cleveland Heights and Parma opened to great fanfare an
on January 2 and 3. This fully integrated department-wide launch, which was a year in the
development, started with significant cultivation of local government officials, community me
through civic organizations and deployment of the community health advocates, and the crea
local advisory councils. Starting in October of this year, the launch campaign included: print, o
digital and radio advertising, exterior signage, media outreach, regular engagement on social
and a special web presence.
 The winter issue of “SimplyWell” features new blood pressure guidelines, tips for caring for se
healthy party food tips, most common winter illnesses for kids and a feature article announcin
new hospitals in Cleveland Heights and Parma.
 We have initiated project Clean Sweep, a system-wide program to improve the appearance of
cleanliness by de-cluttering all public-facing areas, approved by the Cabinet. Implementation
launch after all processes and a policy are fully developed.
 The “Life’s Advice” Safe Sleep ad is running in the previews of Star Wars in 15 theaters across
cities December through the end of January, paid for by the Ohio Department of Health.
 Our Know the Risks Campaign was named as a finalist in PR News’ Nonprofit Awards/PR on a
Shoestring category.

Foundation and System Philanthropy
 MetroHealth received $11.1 million from our generous donor community in 2017, surpassing o
Several transformational gifts were made at year-end including an estate commitment of $50
from Keith Hagans to support MetroHealth’s Brain Injury Patient Care, Education and Research
The gift is a tribute to all the doctors and nurses in the Brain Injury Rehabilitation Program wh
part of Keith’s care, but especially to James Begley, MD, director of that program and director
MetroHealth’s brain injury inpatient rehabilitation program. Keith is an 18-year MetroHealth em
who serves as the Director of Data Operations for Better Health Partnership.
 Fundraising for the Drs. Earle and Jordan Endowed Lectureship in Plastic and Reconstructive S
has wrapped up with two generous gifts totaling over $70,000 from Dr. Roderick Jordan and D
Picha. Dr. Picha trained at MetroHealth in plastic surgery.
 The Shannahley Foundation contributed $11,000 at year-end to benefit the Senior Health & W
Center, the MetroHealth Rehabilitation Institute of Ohio and the MetroHealth Fund. With this g
Foundation has contributed over $60,000 to MetroHealth since 2013.
 MetroHealth Foundation board member, Tim King, and longstanding donors, Marti and Bob Va
issued a $20,000 challenge in December as part of this year’s employee campaign. MetroHea
employees rose to the challenge, contributing $127,000 at year-end. MetroHealth employees
contributed nearly $445,000 in 2017.
 The Estate of Irving Fine contributed $40,000 to MetroHealth designated to The MetroHealth F
Mr. Fine was introduced to MetroHealth by Terry Monnolly and over the course of a few years,
opportunity to learn more about MetroHealth’s mission and commitment to the community.

Page 6 of 6

 