AKRON-SUMMIT COUNTY PUBLIC LIBRARY
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
REGULAR MEETING
MARCH 28, 2019
MAIN LIBRARY
President James Casey called the meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Akron-Summit County Public
Library to order at 4:10 pm at Main Library. The following members of the board answered the roll call:
Lolita Adair, James D. Casey, Jill Darlington, Bernie Rochford. Absent were John Frola, Jr., Bill Rich and
Ray Weber. Present from Library staff were Pam Hickson-Stevenson, Michelle Scarpitti, Carrie Burrier,
Andrea Cowgar, Carla Davis, Cheryl Engel, Stephanie Joliff, Pat Manning, Patty Marsh, Ryan McCoy, Lisa
Peercy, Pam Plumley, Carl Roxbury, Val Sherman, and Barb White.
Mr. Casey asked for any changes or deletions to the agenda. Mr. Rochford 19-30
moved, seconded by Mrs. Adair, to adopt the agenda. The roll call vote followed: Mrs. AGENDA
Adair, Mr. Casey, Mrs. Darlington, and Mr. Rochford all voted aye. The motion
carried.
Mr. Rochford moved, seconded by Mrs. Adair, to adopt the minutes of the 19-31
February 28, 2019 meeting with removal of two uses of the word “on” on page 5. Mrs. FEBRUARY
Adair, Mr. Casey, Mrs. Darlington, and Mr. Rochford all voted aye. The motion carried. BOARD MINUTES
Mr. Casey thanked Pam Hickson-Stevenson for suggesting attendance at the PRESIDENT’S
OLC trustee workshop and attending with him on March 9 in Columbus. He felt it was REMARKS
a good, helpful investment of his time.
Michelle Scarpitti, Fiscal Officer, presented the Executive Summary and the
financial reports for February 2019. She stated that the Library received part of the erate reimbursement due from last year and should receive additional funds of
approximately $2,000. A new fund has been set up: #215 – LSTA Grants that will be
used for the mental health first aid training sessions. She answered questions regarding
encumbered funds and the amount for snow removal due to the storm on MLK, Jr.,
weekend.
Mrs. Darlington moved, seconded by Mr. Rochford, to adopt the February 2019 19-32
financial report. The roll call vote followed: Mrs. Adair, Mr. Casey, Mrs. Darlington, FEBRUARY
2019 FINANCIAL
and Mr. Rochford all voted aye. The motion carried.
REPORT
Ms. Scarpitti presented the donor/gift list. There were $5,599 in monetary
donations and approximately three pages of material donations. The list also showed
acknowledgment of in-kind donations to particular branches or divisions.
Mrs. Adair moved, seconded by Mrs. Darlington, acceptance of the donor/gift 19-33
list with great appreciation. The roll call vote followed: Mrs. Adair, Mr. Casey, Mrs. ACCEPTANCE OF
DONOR/GIFT LIST
Darlington, and Mr. Rochford all voted aye. The motion carried.
Ms. Scarpitti presented the investment reports for February 2019 and
highlighted $9,800.52 in interest earned with 70% of the interest going to the General
Fund in February.
(The financial reports are appended to the minutes.]

 Lisa Peercy, Human Resources Director, presented the Personnel Report for
February 2019. Ms. Peercy stated there were no changes to the report since it was sent
to the board members.
AKRON-SUMMIT COUNTY PUBLIC LIBRARY
Personnel Report – February 2019
RESIGNATIONS:
Employee

Classification

Date

Agency

Chenault, Clayton D.

Bookmobile Driver

03.15.19

Mobile Services

Donohue, Jerri

Substitute Public Service Assistant

03.15.19

Public Services

Galla, Dominic

Student Assistant

02.20.19

Nordonia Hills

Merzweiler, Nicole

Substitute Public Service Assistant

03.07.19

Public Services

SELECTIONS:
Employee

Classification

Date

Agency

Drozek, Stanley

APD

03.06.19

Security

Date

Agency

CHANGE OF STATUS: (Promotion)
Employee
Classification
Krukemeyer, Abigail

Student Assistant
(1/1 $8.55/hr)
Public Service Assistant II part-time
(7/1 $13.93/hr)

Tallmadge
03.04.19

Maple Valley

RETIREMENT:
Employee

Classification

Date

Agency

Ethington, Richelle

Adult Librarian

04.30.19

Business and Government

RETIREMENT:
Richelle Ethington
03/01/84 – 11/01/87 – Librarian II, Business, Labor, Government
11/02/87 – 09/30/14 – Librarian II, Business and Government, job-share
10/01/14 – 04/30/19 - Librarian II, Business and Government, full-time
NUMBER OF STAFF MEMBERS
Full-Time Staff:
Part-time/Job-Share Staff:
Student Assistants:
Total number of Staff:
Full-Time Equivalents

06.16.09
291
68
86
445
339

06.09.10
270
54
73
397
307

03.17.17
259
48
81
388
296

03.20.18
278
42
78
392
300

03.18.19
273
50
73
396
308

NOTE: These numbers cannot be compared from month to month for the following reason: the numbers may not reflect additions and
deletions to the payroll system as the changes are made immediately prior to or after the date the personnel action is effective.
.

2

 Mr. Rochford moved, seconded by Mrs. Darlington, adoption of the 19-34
February 2019 Personnel Report with great appreciation to Mrs. Ethington for her FEBRUARY 2019
years of service. The roll call vote followed: Mrs. Adair, Mr. Casey, Mrs. PERSONNEL REPORT
Darlington, and Mr. Rochford all voted aye. The motion carried.
Ms. Hickson-Stevenson reported that Grow with Google arrived, set up, DIRECTOR’S REPORT
trained, consulted, tore down and left. The “Googlers” worked like a well-oiled
machine and were very enthusiastic about their experience in Akron. It was an GROW WITH GOOGLE
honor to have been one of three libraries in Ohio chosen for this event. Mrs.
Darlington stated that she was glad to make it in for a session.
Ms. Hickson-Stevenson shared that the Library will be a Pathways Partner APS COLLEGE AND
with the Akron Public Schools in their College and Career Academies. She CAREER ACADEMIES
thanked Carrie Burrier, Barb White and Sarah Deisler for their work on the
project. The Library will start with the Early Childhood pathway and the
Information Support and Services for students at North High School. The Library
will provide one engagement opportunity per Academy per semester for students.
Ms. Hickson-Stevenson announced that she will be on vacation from
March 31 until April 8. Mrs. Adair told her to relax and enjoy herself.
Mr. Rochford read the report of the March 19 Buildings and Grounds
Committee Meeting.
AKRON-SUMMIT COUNTY PUBLIC LIBRARY
REPORT OF BUILDINGS & GROUNDS COMMITTEE MEETING
NORTHWEST AKRON BRANCH LIBRARY
MARCH 19, 2019
The Buildings and Grounds Committee met Tuesday, March 19, 2019 in the
conference room of the Northwest Akron Branch Library.
Committee Chair Ray Weber called the meeting to order at 3:37 pm, with
committee members Lolita Adair, Bernie Rochford and Jim Casey attending. Also
attending were Pam Hickson-Stevenson, Carl Roxbury, and Michelle Scarpitti of
the Library staff; and Brian Frantz of the Village of Richfield.
Mr. Rochford moved, seconded by Mrs. Adair, to adopt the agenda as presented.
All committee members present voted aye.
At 3:39 pm Mr. Weber moved, seconded by Mrs. Adair, to go into executive
session to discuss the purchase of public property. The roll call vote followed, and
all committee members voted aye. At 4:32 pm, Mr. Weber declared the committee
out of executive session.
Mr. Roxbury presented information on work proposed by Akron Energy. While
Main Street is under construction, Akron Energy would like to run pipes from the
street to Main Library. The Library then would be positioned to obtain heating
and cooling services from Akron Energy. He explained that Main Library will
3

BUILDINGS &
GROUNDS
COMMITTEE
REPORT

 need to replace its chillers in the not-too-distant future, which will be a six-figure
cost. That project also would involve removing section(s) of roof and/or wall.
Having access to Akron Energy services could provide a cost-effective alternative.
Committee members inquired about any cost to the Library for the work to bring
pipes to the building. Mr. Roxbury indicated it would be low to no cost and that
he would get a confirmation of that and a proposed written agreement. Committee
members asked to be kept informed.
Ms. Hickson-Stevenson and Mr. Roxbury requested that the committee 1
recommend to the board going to bid for parking lot repairs at the Green Branch
Library. This project was included in the 2019 budget and will be completed
before the end of the year. Mr. Rochford moved, seconded by Mrs. Adair, to
recommend that the board approve seeking public bids for Green Branch Library
parking lot repairs. The roll call vote followed, and all committee members voted
aye. The motion passed. This comes as a recommendation to the board.
9-35
The roll call vote followed. Mrs. Adair, Mr. Casey, Mrs. Darlington, Mr. Rochford REPAIR OF GREEN
PARKING LOT
all voted aye. The recommendation was approved.
Mr. Roxbury described a necessary repair to the Fairlawn-Bath Branch Library
HVAC system. He explained that a new air handler and pipe-cooling from above
will replace duct work under the building. This project is part of a pre-approved
contract so no public bid will be necessary.
Ms. Hickson-Stevenson reviewed a request to recommend approval of the
disposal of property per a list presented to the committee members. Mr. Casey
moved, seconded by Mr. Rochford, to recommend to the board approval of
disposal of property. The roll call vote followed, and all committee members voted
aye. The motion passed. This comes as a recommendation to the board.

19-36
The roll call vote followed. Mrs. Adair, Mr. Casey, Mrs. Darlington, Mr. Rochford DISPOSAL OF
SURPLUS PROPERTY
all voted aye. The recommendation was approved
Mr. Weber adjourned the meeting at 5:01 pm.
Pam Hickson-Stevenson, Director
Ms. Hickson-Stevenson read the minutes from the Finance Meeting that was held
immediately before the board meeting.
AKRON-SUMMIT COUNTY PUBLIC LIBRARY
REPORT OF FINANCE COMMITTEE MEETING
NORTHWEST AKRON BRANCH LIBRARY
MARCH 28, 2019
The Finance Committee met Thursday, March 28, 2019 in the board room of Main
Library.
The committee was called to order by Jim Casey at 3:45 pm, with committee
member Jill Darlington and board members Lolita Adair and Bernie Rochford
4

 present. Also attending were Pam Hickson-Stevenson, Michelle Scarpitti, and
Barb White of the Library staff.
Mrs. Darlington moved to adopt the agenda as presented. All committee members
present voted aye.
Ms. Scarpitti and Ms. Hickson-Stevenson then presented the proposed 2019
Permanent Appropriations. Ms. Scarpitti explained the 2019 Permanent
Appropriation document and the finer points of funds and accounts. She reported
that the library received an amended certificate of estimated resources from
Summit County that included additional projected revenue. She also reviewed
special revenue funds and other special funds. Mrs. Darlington moved to
recommend the 2019 Permanent Appropriations as presented. All committee
members voted aye, and this comes as a recommendation to the board.

19-37
The roll call vote followed. Mrs. Adair, Mr. Casey, Mrs. Darlington, Mr. Rochford PERMANENT
APPROPRIATIONS
all voted aye. The recommendation was approved.
Mr. Casey declared the committee adjourned at 4:09 pm.
There were no further reports from the board committees.
Ms. Davis announced a few major events that are happening at Main ADMINISTRATIVE
Library. Arizona State University Professor and Akron native, Joe Fortunato, is TEAM
presenting the Fortunato Film School. He gives commentaries during showings
of various films. In April the program will feature The Graduate, and in June the
film will be Jaws. She also shared information about Jazz at Main featuring Joe
Augustine, a Steinway Artist, and his trio. Performances have been scheduled for
April 7, May 4, and June 23.
There were no other reports from the administration team.
There was no public participation.
The meeting adjourned at 5:12 pm.

_______________________________________
President

_______________________________________
Secretary

5

 