THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LEGAL & GOVERNMENT RELATIONS COMMITTEE
December 12, 2018
Present: Committee Members: Thomas M. McDonald, Vanessa Whiting
Other Trustees:

Dr. J.B. Silvers

Staff:

Akram Boutros, M.D., Laura McBride, Michael Phillips, Jane Platten,
Craig Richmond, Brook Watts, M.D.

The meeting was called to order at 12:45 p.m. by Ms. Whiting. The minutes are written in a format
conforming to the printed meeting agenda for the convenience of correlation, recognizing that some of
the items were discussed out of sequence.
I.

The minutes of the September 12, 2018, meeting was approved.

II.

Consent Items (Acted upon following the discussion described below.)
1.

Recommendation to the President and Chief Executive Officer of The MetroHealth
System for the Reaffirmation of the Policy Relative to the Open Meetings Law
After discussion with the Board, this Consent Item was tabled to be discussed in
Executive Session and voted upon in Open Session.

2.

Recommendation to the President and Chief Executive Officer of The MetroHealth
System to Ratify and Approve Liability Claims at or Under $100,000 for 2018
Due to the confidential nature of claims being discussed, this Consent Item was tabled to
be discussed in Executive Session and voted upon in Open Session.

3.

Recommendation to the President and Chief Executive Officer of The MetroHealth
System to Ratify and Approve Bureau of Workers’ Compensation Claims at or Under
$100,000 for 2018
Due to the confidential nature of claims being discussed, this Consent Item was tabled to
be discussed in Executive Session and voted upon in Open Session.

III.

Discussion Items


Risk Management Report
Due to the confidential nature of the liability and workers’ compensation claims being
discussed within the Risk Management Report, a motion was unanimously passed by roll
call vote to go into Executive Session to discuss matters required to be kept confidential
by law.

 IV.

Action Items – None

Following the Executive Session, the meeting reconvened in open session at approximately 1:13 p.m.
The Chair noted the discussion surrounding the Reaffirmation of the Policy Relative to the Open
Meetings Law for 2018-2019. There being no further questions, the Board unanimously approved the
Reaffirmation of the Policy Relative to the Open Meetings Law for 2018-2019.
The Chair noted that the Chief Risk Officer had made a detailed presentation of the liability claims at or
under $100,000 for 2018. There being no further questions, the Board unanimously approved the
settlement of liability claims at or under $100,000 for 2018.
The Chair noted that the Chief Risk Officer had made a detailed presentation of the Bureau of Workers’
Compensation claims at or under $100,000 for 2018. There being no further questions, the Board
unanimously approved the settlement of the Bureau of Workers’ Compensation claims at or under
$100,000 for 2018.
There being no further business, the meeting adjourned at 1:16 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,

Michael Phillips
Senior Vice President and Chief Legal Officer

2

 