THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
REPORT OF THE PRESIDENT AND CEO
TO THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
REGULAR MEETING OF NOVEMBER 28, 2018
Executive









For the fifth consecutive year, employees received a holiday “thank-you” with a Giant Eagle gift
Executive leaders and the management team distributed 7778 gift cards to our employees. Som
donated their $25 gift card to Social Work to support families in need.
We are pleased to announce that MetroHealth received preliminary accreditation determination f
Joint Commission. MetroHealth will submit Evidence of Standard Compliance by mid-January to c
the triennial survey.
Many thanks to the generosity of the Western Reserve Area Agency on Aging (WRAAA)! They pro
free turkeys to our patients, just in time for the big feast. WRAAA staff and the MetroHealth socia
handed out turkeys to our grateful patients.
th
MetroHealth honored employee veterans during a special program on Monday,
. The
November
event 12
was an opportunity to thank those employees who have served, and for staff who have family m
the military to pay tribute to their loved ones. The program was sponsored by the Office of Inclus
Diversity and the Veterans Employee Resource Group (ERG).
MetroHealth employees and programs received several awards:
o BREAST/Amigas Program was recently presented with Medical Mutual of Ohio’s Debra A. G
Community Service Award, which honors those who display an impressive commitment to
against breast cancer.
o Christopher (Chris) Seminatore, MSN, RN, was named Ohio March of Dimes Nurse of the Ye
Quality & Risk Management Infection Control category. Chris, Nurse Manager in the Emerg
Department at Cleveland Heights Medical Center, was recognized along with other nurses
throughout the state at the Ohio Nurse of The Year Awards event earlier this month.
o Joan Papp, MD, Director, Office of Opioid Safety and an Emergency Department physician,
named a 2018 Community Leader of the Year by Cleveland Magazine. Dr. Papp was recog
her efforts to fight the opioid epidemic with Project DAWN and as an advocate for legislatio
o Terry Stancin, PhD, ABPP, was the 2018 Recipient of the National Compassionate Caregive
Year Award from The Schwartz Center for Compassionate Healthcare. This award honors ca
"who exemplify the characteristics of compassion, which include effective communication
support, mutual trust and respect, the involvement of families in healthcare decisions and
patients as people, not just illnesses." Hundreds of caregivers are nominated for the award
o The MetroHealth System received the Louis Stokes Paragon Award from The Legal Aid Soc
Cleveland. The award is Legal Aid’s highest honor. In 2003, Legal Aid and MetroHealth for
medical-legal partnership to improve health outcomes for low-income children in MetroHe
pediatric practices. The program is one of the first in the United States and the first in Ohi
partnership has expanded with support from MetroHealth to serve other vulnerable individ
families including pregnant women, Spanish-speakers, immigrants, the elderly, and forme
incarcerated people. MetroHealth was the pioneer of this program, which has since expand
other local health care systems.
o MetroHealth received the Human Rights Campaign’s Cleveland Corporate Equality Award f
outstanding leadership and service to the LGBTQ community.
Aleece Caron, PhD, Senior Medical Educator at MetroHealth and Associate Professor of Medicine
was awarded a $2 million grant from the Health Resources & Services Administration (HRSA) to “
satisfaction and retention rates, strengthen the primary care workforce and reduce burnout, and
providers to urban underserved primary care sites.” Co-investigators include Christina Antenucc
Nathan Beachy, MD, James Campbell, MD, Adam Perzynski, PhD, and Eileen Seeholzer, MD.

 Chief of Staff

Survivor Recovery Services
 The MetroHealth Trauma Recovery center onboarded 6 new staff to support patient, families, and
community members who have experienced trauma and victimization within our community. Thi
one (1) additional trauma-focused counselor and five (5) licensed social workers to assist in build
maintaining wraparound services for our patients and families, here, in the schools, and in the co
nd
Community Trauma Leadership summit was held in November to share the developing res
 The 2
the impact that trauma has on our communities at large; focusing on existing strengths, resilienc
champions. The summit was met with overwhelming support as we move into phase 2 of develo
implementation. This will be a powerful way to work alongside our community and meet people
are with exactly what they need; as well as educate and equip the systems and institutions that
support the communities.
 Peer Survivor, Mary Ribar, was featured on a Fox 8 News Thanksgiving special sharing in her exp
MetroHealth. She is a valued part of our team and we were happy to hear her share how importa
receive help from people who can share in one’s lived experience.
Department of Public Safety




To date, the Public Safety Department alone has had 14 saves using Narcan.
As of November, 4,500 gunlocks have been handed out. This 150 percent of our goal of 3000.
Public Safety began distributing Narcan kits to any MetroHealth employee.

Facilities Management


Compliance Preparedness: There were only 12 findings from the Joint Commission Life Safety Sur
during the October triennial survey, 4 Environment of Care and 8 Life Safety findings. Important
the findings were “high” level findings and there were no “penetration” findings. The Life Safety
commented that he had never surveyed a hospital of this size and not found a penetration. He a
that organizations half our size often have twice as many findings.

System Dyad


The Dyad launched the Provider Compensation Governance Council (PCGC), an advisory council
Provider Compensation Plan is well implemented and administered based on Plan philosophy and

Hospital Operations
 Progress continues on the Capacity Command Center with interviews underway for the Director r
identification of necessary space and technology.
 In-patient falls have been greatly reduced: a 30 percent reduction in number and a 60 percent r
the rate per 1000 days.
Environmental Services
o
o

o

Thomas Jones was welcomed as the new Director of Environmental Services and Logistics.
Joint Commission Daily Readiness Training was initiated to assure that the entire team is w
from one playbook.
Two new programs were initiated in Environmental Services, Logistics, and Textile Care.
▪ Weekly Leadership Focus Reading Program – Designed to focus on developing positi
leadership skills, building team spirit, increasing communication, improving busines
performance, and recognizing team members for improving the quality of life.
▪ Method of the Week Program – Focuses on information relating to departmental
requirements, products, and processes.
Departmental employees were recognized for their successes.
Page 2 of 7

 ▪ Darcell Jordan was interviewed for his work with the Towards Employment. They
chronicled his life’s journey prior to his employment at MetroHealth, looking at how
overcame obstacles and how employment at MetroHealth has improved his life.
▪ Revenue Cycle honored Roderic Benson at the Schwartz Rounds for his life experie
new beginning on his path as a new employee at MetroHealth.
o Environmental Services is working with four Lincoln West High School students to teach w
experiences throughout the school year.
Pathology
o Pathology completed the conversion of Cytomegalovirus (CMV) and Varicella-Zoster Virus
testing by culture to CMV and VZV by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). This change has s
dramatic reductions in turnaround times, from up to 28 days to a final result within 24 hou
resulting in rapid diagnosis and treatment.
Pharmacy
o MetroHealth Retail Pharmacies have surpassed the number of flu vaccines given by pharm
2017 after only eight weeks in 2018.
o Board-certified pharmacist Ben King, PharmD, presented at the Annual Advanced Practice
Pharmacology Conference for APRNs and Board-certified pharmacist Nilam Patel, PharmD
presented at theth35
Annual Life Flight Symposium.
27
, at the National Drug Take Back Day held in front of the Main Campus Plaza
o On October th
Pharmacy, MetroHealth Police collected 26.5 pounds of unused drugs.
Radiology
o The Mammography Quality Standards Act (MQSA) inspection at Beachwood Mammograph
with 100 percent compliance.
o The Ohio Department of Health (ODH) radiation generating equipment inspection for State
Crocker Park passed with 100 percent compliance.
Service Lines
Adult Health and Wellness





Primary Care - Nathan Beachy, MD has been appointed Associate Program Director for Ohio Univ
underserved programs.
Geriatrics - James Campbell MD, received Founder’s Award from Old Brooklyn City Development
Corporation.
Psychiatry - The Psychology Residency Program was awarded Accreditation by the American Psyc
Association.
Brittany Myers, PhD was invited to the MetroHealth Regional Fall Nursing Conference to present o
Managing Adolescent Depression in Primary Care.

Cancer Care



Dr. Yasir Tarabichi was selected for the Cancer Center Pilot Grant for his proposal “An EHR-integra
tailored decision aid to facilitate shared decision making regarding lung cancer screening in a sa
hospital”.
The American Cancer Society and MetroHealth selected Laura Murray as the patient navigator fo
Center. The navigator links patients to local resources such as transportation and financial assis

Emergency Services




Strong recruitment month for our nursing with the hiring of six Emergency Department experien
Community EDs continue to serve as an attractive alternative for patients. All sites achieved vol
budget – Brecksville 6.5 percent, Cleveland Heights 27 percent and Parma 22.6 percent.
MLF ground had another record month with volume as the advanced life support truck (ALS) is op
supporting our critical care truck (CCT).
Page 3 of 7

 Neuro-Musculoskeletal



The Pain & Healing Center has made progress including, consolidation of all the providers under
service, one referral phone number, and one Epic referral order.
th
Expansion of providers to satellite locations, now at Main campus, Beachwood, Cleveland
,
Height
Middleburg Heights, Brecksville, Westlake, and Parma.

Specialty Care




The service line implemented revised provider templates and a new patient referral review proce
to a 15 percent improvement in patient access and continued trend of increased new patient vis
The Cardiovascular & Pulmonary Center experienced record EP procedure volumes in October ba
workflow enhancements and new providers.
The Palliative Care division in the Chronic Disease Management Center collaborated in the imple
“Celebrating the Art of Living and Dying” events in November including lectures, panel discussio
displays in Rammelkamp Atrium as a part of National Hospice and Palliative Care month. Dr. Eliz
O’Toole (Division Director, Palliative Care) was featured on WKYC’s Live on Lakeside discussing th

Surgery
 October OR Volumes achieved record month, second only to August.
 Bariatric in person seminar is now delivered completely in Spanish.
Trauma, Critical Care, Burns




Dr. Laura Kreiner will serve as trauma medical director at Mercy Lorain and Dr. Niimitt Patel will s
trauma medical director at Fisher Titus.
Dr. Vanessa Ho was the recipient of a one-year grant from the AAST.
The results of the PAMPer trial were published in the New England Journal of Medicine. Dr. Jeff Cl
the trauma team were part of this 5-year study, which showed prehospital administration of plas
trauma patients at risk for hemorrhagic shock improves odds of survival.

Women and Children’s
 Dr. Reema Gulati, Director, Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition will be a guest
th
an upcoming Ask The Experts panel sponsored by the American Liver Foundation
. on November 2
 Nefertiti Peterson, RN and Bryanta Spencer (Social Work) from Nurse Family Partnership were sel
receive the Cleveland Central Promise Neighborhood and Sisters of Charity Foundation, Champio
Award. The Champion of Central Award is given to a person(s) who demonstrates a passion for t
community and serves as a change agent.
Ambulatory Operations








th
October 18
provided health screenings for the Broadview Heights/Brecksville Senior Wellness day.
th
October 27partnered with Event Medicine and was a proud sponsor of Brecksville Kiwanis Annual
Trot-A family friendly costume event and 5K run.
th
October 29
offered a new service at Brecksville, Occupational Therapy started as a 3 day/week se
Parma Medical Center, Broadway Health Center, and Brooklyn Health Center are all live with che
kiosks. Patients continue to use the kiosks successfully and the overall experience is reported to
For those patients who used the “Wait List” feature of MyChart, their appointment wait times we
decreased by an average of 26 days.
Conducted a health fair and flu shot clinic at Cleveland Heightsthon
at October
which time
27 we were able
to vaccinate over 150 persons form the community and provided a variety of contacts for an ass
health and social service resources.
Conducted 5 walk in flu clinics Middleburg Heights in October providing over 250 vaccines to the
and a walk-in skin cancer screening clinic onthOctober
with 64 patients
6
seen.

Page 4 of 7

 

On October th
20
, in collaboration with Parma Inpatient Unit, conducted a successful Trick or Treat Flu
targeting Parma School Children and families. Over 70 patients were vaccinated on that day. Ch
enjoyed fun Halloween Activities, games, costumes, pictures, and trick-or-treating after receiving

Human Resources/Inclusion & Diversity
 Conducted HR Organizational Health Assessment to assess current state capabilities and guide s
planning efforts for HR Transformation (surveyed key stakeholders-all managers and above) with
participation rate of 72 percent.
 Transgender Youth Focus Group Study - Completed 40 interviews to include patients, families and
community providers and created scenario-based Cultural Competence video on transgender pa
encounters.
 ACO metrics and REaL are above national benchmark.
 Partnered with Diverse Nurse Employee Resource Group to hold diverse nurse recruiting event in
with 46 people in attendance.
 Participated in Hispanic Roundtable Match Maker event to increase partnership and engagement
Hispanic community leaders.
 Participated in Supplier Diversity Advisory Council kickoff event.
 Participated in NBMBAA Cleveland Chapter Career Development and Recruiting event.
Ethics and Compliance





Hosted an educational session on the Ohio Ethics rules on gifts, nepotism and conflicts of interes
by Susan Willeke, Ohio Ethics Commission, Education and Communications Administrator.
Featured the MHS Code of Conduct at a national compliance conference at a session given by the
Ethics and Compliance Officer on “A Fresh Look at Your Code of Culture.”
Trained approximately 7,000 employees in 10 weeks across all MHS locations.
Completed annual compliance training of the Board of Trustees.

Finance











rd
Craig Richmond was a Keynote Presenter at the HFMA First Illinois Fall Summit 2018
. His
on October 2
presentation was focused on and titled: Thriving not Surviving: A Story of Resilient Organization
Enrollment on Wheels RV participated in 19 events, servicing 115 community members in Octob
provided are scheduling of medical clinic appointments, insurance education, and assistance wit
eligibility. There were eight events on the Westside and eleven on the Eastside.
RSM US LLP, the System’s external audit partner, completed their preliminary fieldwork for the u
2018 financial statement audit. Fieldwork included a risk assessment, and preliminary analytical
September 30 financial statements. No significant issues have been identified.
The new forecasting application, Strategic Product Budget (SPB), has been implemented. The sof
used to develop quarterly forecasts and monthly projections. It enables development of more pre
business plans using patient level details when evaluating new or existing strategic initiatives.
Internal Audit planning for 2019 has commenced. The internal audit plan is developed through ri
review of internal audit results and interviews with management. During November, Internal Au
conduct interviews with approximately 30 members of the management team to obtain perspec
operating, strategic, technology and financial risks across the organization.
Internal audit is evaluating performance across five areas: professionalism, audit scope, executio
and value of the audit. The average score for surveys received through the third quarter of 2018
upon a five-point scale, with one being the lowest. The team will continue to implement changes
feedback received through this process.

Page 5 of 7

 Enterprise Data Analytics


Department of Operational Research and Analytics (DORA) has hired a Ph.D. data scientist to be
MetroHealth’s first Manager of Strategic and Predictive Analytics. The manager will lead DORA’s
scientists using cutting edge techniques and technology to transform MetroHealth’s data into ac
knowledge resulting in operational improvements.

Enterprise Program Management Office



MetroHealth Community District Certification project, managed by the Enterprise Program Manag
Office (Enterprise PMO), continues to make progress in the first phase of EcoDistricts certification
The Nephrology Department and EPMO have partnered together to undertake a process improve
for MetroHealth providers rounding at kidney dialysis units across the county. A current state ana
underway to identify opportunities to improve the rounding experience and workflows of provide
them to work at the top of their license.

Information Technology (IT)





MetroHealth has earned “CHIME (College of Healthcare Information Management Executives) He
Most Wired” 2018 designation. The annual survey is designed to identify and recognize healthca
organizations that exemplify best practices through their adoption, implementation and use of in
technology.
MetroHealth achieved Epic Honor Roll Cum Laude Designation for good maintenance which place
MetroHealth in the top 15% of all Epic customers. With this award comes a $240K grant to be ap
applications or services to continue improvement and support of our Epic asset.
Ashish Masih, Director of Business Applications, was awarded Fellow status at Healthcare Informa
Management Systems Society (HIMSS). Less than 500 people nationally hold this status.

Supply Chain



The Supply Chain Director and Supplier Diversity Specialist facilitated MetroHealth’s inaugural di
supplier reverse trade show. Twenty-nine diverse suppliers attended the event with key decision
from MHS to collaboratively pursue opportunities for bidding on MHS opportunities.
Inventory and Purchasing leadership is partnering with the MHS Quality Institute to modify policy
process for introducing products used in patient care. This will improve and standardize docume
streamline the process and to obtain consistent vetting by our interdisciplinary value analysis co
responsible for balancing patient efficacy with cost and revenue impact.

External Affairs
Government Relations



th
On November
,8the Northeast Ohio Opioid Consortium hosted a regional health policy discussion w
Douglas O’Brien, Regional Director for U.S. Department of Health and Human Services for Region
Papp discussed MetroHealth’s Office of Opioid Safety strategy and outcomes with the regional di
Government relations staff executed a successful voter registration drive in collaboration with th
County Board of Elections and other community organizations. Over 2,050 individuals received v
registration and vote by mail assistance from the effort.

Community Engagement


In partnership with First Year Cleveland, MetroHealth launched the “Safe Sleep Heroes” training m
through our LEAP system to all MetroHealth employees onthNovember
. Nearly 4,000
5 employees have
completed the training. MetroHealth is the first health system to launch the module and is servin
example for community organizations to make the training available to their staff in 2019.
Page 6 of 7

 


Open Table - The first of 4 tables launched, beginning their year-long commitment to support a c
member in need. The remaining three tables will launch by the end of November. Recruitment is
for cohort 2 which will launch in January 2019.
MetroHealth, Turner Construction and Councilwoman Jasmine Santana are partnering on “Celebra
Season”. Neighbors, employees, patients and their families are invited to celebrate the season w
st
and a tree lighting in the MetroHealth quad on December
from 4:00
1 – 6:30pm.

Marketing and Communications


MetroHealth’s first podcast, Prescription for Hope, about the health system’s comprehensive resp
opioid crisis, is the winner of a Public Relations Society of America Cleveland Rocks Awards. The
created by John Campanelli and Tina Arundel of MetroHealth’s Communications team. The award
th
presented at a dinner on December
.
4

Foundation and System Philanthropy








MetroHealth’s For All of Us $100 million campaign is hitting stride, with $33,600,000 of the comm
program and endowment and $5,000,000 committed to capital. The Campaign Cabinet, in partn
the boards and staff, anticipate achieving the $50 million by the end of 2019.
MetroHealth Foundation Life Board members, Rob Durham and Collin Knisely, have lead an initia
out to all former MetroHealth Foundation board chairs to request support for the Transformation C
Response has been extremely well received, with David Jacobs of Oswald Companies recently ma
gift in support of MetroHealth. David served on The MetroHealth Foundation Board from 2005 – 2
as chair from 2012-2015.
The Reinberger Foundation has confirmed its support of the Food as Medicine program, with a $5
2-year grant. The Reinberger Foundation has supported MetroHealth since 2010, contributing ne
$200,000. In addition, the Citizens Bank Foundation made an additional grant of $10,000 to sup
important pilot program.
The Thatcher Family Fund of The Cleveland Foundation has committed support to the DOTS initia
the second grant that the Fund has made to MetroHealth.
The SunTrust Foundation contributed $20,000 to Lincoln-West School of Science and Health. Fou
board member, Jim Geuther, helped facilitate this first-time gift to MetroHealth.

Page 7 of 7

 