TH ETROH EALTH SYSTE 

BOARD OF TRUSTEES BYLAWS

Amendments and Revisions through July, 2018

THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
BOARD OF TRUSTEES BYLAWS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREAMBLE:

SOURCE AND AUTHORITY ......................................................... 3

ARTICLE I:

NAME........................................................................................ 3

ARTICLE II:
ROLE AND PURPOSE .................................................................. 3
Section 1.
Role and Purpose ............................................................. 3
Section 2.
Mission Statement ........................................................... 4
ARTICLE III:

RESPONSIBILITY ....................................................................... 4

ARTICLE IV:
Section
Section
Section
Section
Section

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES ................................................................ 4
Appointments .................................................................. 4
Term of Office ................................................................. 4
Conflict of Interest and Qualification ................................. 5
Vacancies, Removal; Resignation ...................................... 5
Principal Office ................................................................ 5

ARTICLE V:
Section
Section
Section
Section
Section
Section

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

REGULAR AND SPECIAL MEETINGS ............................................ 5
Regular Meetings and Open Meetings Policy ...................... 5
Quorum .......................................................................... 6
Agendas and Procedures for Meetings ............................... 6
Special Meetings .............................................................. 6
Annual Meeting/Election of Officers. .................................. 6
Special Meeting to Evaluate Mission and Board's
Performance………………………………………………………………. 7
Section 7.
Meeting by Authorized Communications Equipment………… 7

ARTICLE VI:
Section
Section
Section
Section
Section
Section
ARTICLE VII:
Section
Section
Section
Section

1.
2.
3.
4
5.
6.

OFFICERS OF THE BOARD ......................................................... 7
Officers and Term of Office .............................................. 7
Responsibility of Chairperson ............................................ 7
Responsibility of the Chair Elect ....................................... 8
Responsibility of Vice Chairperson ..................................... 8
Responsibility of Secretary ................................................ 8
Signature Authority .......................................................... 8

1.
2.
3.
4.

COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD .................................................... 9
Committee Structure ........................................................ 9
Committee Membership and Assignments.......................... 9
Committee Quorum.......................................................... 9
Committee Charters ........................................................ 9

 Section
Section
Section
Section
Section
Section
Section
Section
Section

STANDING COMMITTEES ......................................................... 10
5.
Executive Committee ..................................................... 10
6.
Facilities and Space Committee ....................................... 10
7.
Finance Committee ........................................................ 10
8.
Audit and Compliance Committee ................................... 11
9.
Quality and Safety Committee ........................................ 11
10.
Legal and Government Relations Committee .................... 11
11.
Diversity Committee ....................................................... 12
12.
Patient Experience Committee ........................................ 12
13.
Community Engagement Committee ............................... 13

SPECIAL COMMITTEES
Section 14.
Appellate Review Committee .......................................... 13
Section 15.
Expedited Credentialing Committee ................................ .13
ARTICLE VIII:
INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE ........................................ 13
Section 1.
Indemnification ............................................................. .13
Section 2.
Insurance ...................................................................... 14
Section 3.
Bonding ................................................................... .....15
ARTICLE IX:
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER ................................................... ..15
Section 1.
Appointment of Chief Executive Officer ........................... 15
Section 2.
Responsibility of President and Chief Executive Officer ..... 15
Section 3.
Review of Chief Executive Officer Performance ............... .15
ARTICLE X:
Section
Section
Section
Section
Section

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

MEDICAL STAFF ...................................................................... 15
Organization and Bylaws ............................................... .15
Appointments .............................................................. ..16
Authority and Responsibility for Care ............................... 16
Evaluation of Care ......................................................... 17
Hearings ....................................................................... 17

ARTICLE XI:

VOLUNTARY ORGANIZATIONS ................................................. 17

ARTICLE XII:

AMENDMENTS ......................................................................... 17

ADDENDA
MISSION STATEMENT .............................................................. 18
AMENDMENT AND REVISION DATES ........................................ 19

2

 THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
BOARD OF TRUSTEES BYLAWS
PREAMBLE: SOURCE AND AUTHORITY
The MetroHealth System has been established as a county hospital and operates and is
governed by Chapter 339 of the Ohio Revised Code. These Bylaws have been adopted
by the Board of Trustees (the "Board") pursuant to Chapter 339 of the Ohio Revised
Code. Any reference to the Ohio Revised Code shall mean the Code as now in effect or
as may hereafter be amended and to the corresponding provisions of any similar laws
subsequently enacted to those sections and provisions.
ARTICLE I: NAME
The name of this organization shall be The MetroHealth System. The MetroHealth
System is the governing authority for an integrated system of health care facilities and
programs operated by the organization. The term "organization" when used
hereinafter may refer to the entire system or an individual component thereof as the
context indicates.
ARTICLE II: ROLE AND PURPOSE
Section 1. Role and Purpose.
The role and purpose of the institution shall be:
a.

To establish and maintain permanent hospital facilities (as defined in Chapter 140
of the Ohio Revised Code) and services to provide a continuum of health care
services including, but not limited to, community health and prevention services,
ambulatory and emergency services, comprehensive primary care, acute
inpatient hospital care, tertiary care, rehabilitation services and skilled nursing
care.

b.

To carry on educational activities in medicine and the allied health professions.

c.

To promote and carry on biomedical, health services and other related research.

d.

To promote and carry on activities to improve the health status of the
community, including, but not limited to, preventive medicine, wellness,
outreach, education and health programs.

3

 Section 2. Mission Statement.
In order to provide a concise statement of the purposes and objectives of the institution
for internal and external dissemination, the Board of Trustees shall develop and, from
time to time, review and revise as necessary, a Mission Statement which shall be
considered an addendum to these Bylaws when approved by the Board.
ARTICLE III: RESPONSIBILITY
In accordance with the applicable provisions of the Ohio Revised Code, the Board shall
have the authority and responsibility for the entire management and control of the
organization, and shall establish such rules for its governance and the delivery of health
care services as are necessary and expedient. Nothing in these Bylaws shall be
construed to limit the statutory authority of the Board in the conduct of the affairs of
the organization. The Board shall retain the right to rescind any assignment, referral,
or delegation of authority.
Members of the Board shall understand and fulfill their responsibilities. New members
of the Board shall participate in an orientation program. Administrative leadership will
offer continuing education programs to and share ongoing information with Board
members to assist them in understanding and fulfilling their responsibilities.
ARTICLE IV: BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section 1. Appointments.
The Cuyahoga County Executive together with the probate judge of Cuyahoga County
senior in point of service and the judge of the Court of Common Pleas of Cuyahoga
County senior in point of service shall nominate and, with the approval of the Cuyahoga
County Council, appoint the members of the Board pursuant to the provisions of Ohio
Revised Code Section 339.02.
Section 2. Term of Office.
The number of members of the Board shall be ten (10) as provided in Ohio Revised
Code Section 339.02 and each Trustee shall serve a term of office of six (6) years or
such shorter term as may be required by the provisions of Ohio Revised Code Section
339.02.

4

 Section 3. Conflict of Interest and Qualification.
A policy of the Board relative to conflict of interest, consistent with the applicable
provisions of the Ohio Revised Code, shall be adopted by the Board.
Pursuant to Ohio Revised Code Section 339.02, no more than two members of the
Board shall be electors of the area served by the institution that is outside Cuyahoga
County. Each member of the Board shall be qualified to vote on any issue that may
properly come before any meeting of the Board and to hold any office of the Board to
which such Board member may be elected or appointed, subject to the conflict of
interest policy of the Board and the provisions of the Ohio Revised Code.
Section 4. Vacancies; Removal; Resignation.
All vacancies which occur on the Board by reason of expiration of term, death,
resignation or removal from office shall be filled by the appointment of a new member
to fill the unexpired term, in accordance with the Ohio Revised Code. Any Trustee may
be removed from office in accordance with the provisions of the Ohio Revised Code.
Any Trustee may resign at any time by giving written notice of such resignation to the
Chairperson of the Board.
Section 5. Principal Office.
The principal office of the Board shall be located at MetroHealth Medical Center, 2500
MetroHealth Drive, Cleveland, Ohio 44109-1998 unless the Board designates another
location.
ARTICLE V: REGULAR AND SPECIAL MEETINGS
Section l. Regular Meetings and Open Meetings Policy.
The Board shall hold regular meetings at its principal office, or other convenient location
as designated by the Chairperson of the Board, no less frequently than every other
month, which shall be held on the fourth Wednesday of the month; or in those cases
when a quorum will not be available, on another day in that month mutually agreeable
to a majority of Board members. A Schedule of Board Meetings for the coming year
shall be adopted by the Board at its last regular meeting of the preceding year, and
such schedule shall be made available to the general public upon request, in
accordance with the Ohio Revised Code.
A policy of the Board relative to the open meetings law, consistent with the
requirements of the Ohio Revised Code, shall be adopted by the Board.

5

 Section 2. Quorum.
The number of members of the Board which constitutes a quorum for regular and
special meetings of the Board shall be the number required by Section 339.02 of the
Ohio Revised Code or any successor provision thereto.
Section 3. Agendas and Procedures for Meetings.
Agendas for regular meetings of the Board shall be prepared by the President and Chief
Executive Officer of the institution in consultation with the Chairperson of the Board. In
addition to such items of current business as may be presented by the Chairperson for
consideration at Board meetings, the following matters shall be considered by the
Trustees at each regular meeting of the Board:
a.
b.
c.
d.

Approval of minutes of previous meeting.
Approval of expenditures for capital improvement above certain limits as may be
established by the Board of Trustees from time to time and such operating
expense approvals as may be required by the Board from time to time.
Approval of privileges for clinical practitioners and appointments of privileged
practitioners as members of the medical staff of the institution and review of
Medical Executive Committee minutes.
Such other matters as may be properly brought before the Board.

Any member of the Board may cause an item to be included on the agenda of the next
meeting of the Board by submitting it to the Chairperson of the Board, at least ten days
before the Board meeting.
Section 4. Special Meetings.
Special meetings of the Board shall be held upon the call of the Chairperson of the
Board or upon the request, in writing, of any three members of the Board. Pursuant to
such notice, the Chairperson shall call a special meeting of the Board within ten days of
the receipt of such request.
Written notice of a special meeting shall be transmitted to each member of the Board at
least forty-eight (48) hours before the date of such special meeting. This notice shall
state the business for which the special meeting has been called, and no business other
than that stated in the notice shall be transacted at such special meeting.
Section 5. Annual Meeting/Election of Officers.
The regular March meeting of the Board shall be the Annual Meeting of the Board. At
the meeting, Officers of the Board shall be elected and assume office.

6

 Section 6. Special Meeting to Evaluate Mission and Board's Performance.
The Board shall hold a special meeting not less than once biennially to review the
institution's mission and to evaluate the Board's role and performance related to
achieving that mission unless the Board has otherwise accomplished such review and
evaluation through regular meetings and/or Board retreats.
Section 7. Meeting by Authorized Communications Equipment.
Members of the Board or of any committee of the Board may participate in and act at
any meeting of such Board or committee by means of authorized communications
equipment if all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other
simultaneously. Participation by such means shall constitute attendance and presence
in person at the meeting and any such member shall be counted for purposes of
determining whether a quorum is present and shall be permitted to vote. The Board
shall maintain a record of any vote or other action taken at a Board or committee
meeting conducted by means of authorized communications equipment and such
records shall identify the members attending by means of authorized communication
equipment. “Authorized communications equipment" means any communications
equipment that provides a transmission, including, but not limited to, by telephone,
telecopy, or any electronic means, from which it can be determined that the
transmission was authorized by, and accurately reflects the intention of, the member or
director involved and, with respect to meetings, allows all persons participating in the
meeting to contemporaneously communicate with each other.
ARTICLE VI: OFFICERS OF THE BOARD
Section 1. Officers and Term of Office.
The Officers of the Board may include a Chairperson, a Chair Elect (elected to serve for
the final year of the Chairperson’s service in such office), a Vice Chairperson, and a
Secretary. All Officers shall be elected annually by the Board from among its own
membership and shall hold office for a period of one year and until their respective
successors shall have been duly elected and qualified.
Section 2. Responsibility of Chairperson.
The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the Board, whether regular or special,
and shall be, ex-officio, a member of all committees of the Board. The Chairperson also
shall have responsibility for the other duties of the office, as hereinafter described.

7

 Section 3. Responsibility of the Chair Elect.
The Chair-Elect shall act as the Chair in the absence of the Chair and, when so acting,
shall have the power and authority of the Chair and shall preside at all meetings of the
Board, and perform such duties as may be assigned by the Board or by the Chair.
The Chair-Elect shall:










Become the MetroHealth Board of Trustees Chair at the next annual meeting of
the Board of Trustees, unless a majority of the Board of Trustees elects
otherwise; or in the event that the current Chair position becomes vacant for any
reason.
Participate in all Board and Committee meetings.
Co-Chair the Executive/Personnel Committee.
Be called upon to make official appearances and presentations, such as media
briefings and community meetings, to supplement the efforts of the Chair.
Beginning mid-year, attend weekly briefing sessions between Chair and President
and Chief Executive Officer.
Be responsible for planning the next year’s activities as Chair, including
completion of budget plan, and committee appointments.
Oversee and conduct annual Board of Trustee self-assessment, and plan for the
next year’s annual Board of Trustees retreat.
Otherwise work with the Chair to develop a transition process where the ChairElect becomes familiar with the duties and functions of the Chair and assume
such other duties and functions as delegated from time to time.

Section 4. Responsibility of Vice Chairperson.
The Vice Chairperson shall act as Chairperson in the absence of the Chairperson and,
when so acting, shall have the power and authority of the Chairperson.
Section 5. Responsibility of Secretary.
The Secretary shall have the responsibility for assuring that records of all Board
meetings and actions, including minutes, journals and other legally required documents,
are adequately kept and properly reported.
Section 6. Signature Authority
Any Officer of the Board is authorized to sign any document requiring the signature of
an Officer of the Board.

8

 ARTICLE VII: COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD
Section 1. Committee Structure.
Committees of the Board shall be either standing or special. Standing committees shall
include Executive (Personnel) Committee, Facilities and Space Committee, Finance
Committee, Audit and Compliance Committee, Quality and Safety Committee, Legal and
Government Relations Committee, Diversity Committee, Patient Experience Committee,
Community Engagement Committee, and such other standing committees as the Board
may authorize. Standing Committees may meet jointly.
Special committees may be appointed by the Chairperson of the Board for such special
tasks as circumstances warrant. A special committee shall limit its activities to the
accomplishment of the task for which it is appointed and shall stand discharged upon
completion of said task. The Appellate Review Committee shall be a special committee.
Section 2. Committee Membership and Assignments.
Each standing committee shall have at least two members of the Board on its
membership. Committee assignments shall be made at the Annual Meeting by the
Chairperson of the Board, who shall also designate the Board member to serve as
Chairperson of the committee. The Chairperson of the Board shall designate any
additional assignments to the standing committees. Appropriate administrative and
medical representatives to the committees shall be recommended by the President and
Chief Executive Officer. These representatives shall offer information and advice as
requested, but shall not have a vote.
Section 3. Committee Quorum.
At any duly called committee meeting, any two Trustees, whether or not designated
committee members, shall constitute a quorum. Each committee meeting shall have an
agenda and minutes of the meeting shall be kept on file. The committee Chairperson,
or other Trustee member in the absence of the Chairperson, shall report actions,
recommendations and information of the committee to the Board at the regular meeting
of the Board immediately following such committee meeting.
Section 4. Committee Charters.
Each standing committee of the Board shall develop and review a committee charter
from time to time as considered appropriate by the committee, subject to approval of
the Board. Any modifications to the charter must be approved by the Legal and
Government Relations Committee and the Board of Trustees.

9

 STANDING COMMITTEES
Section 5. Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee shall consist of the Officers of the Board: Chairperson,
Vice-Chairperson and Secretary and may also include no more than two additional
Trustees as determined by the Officers. The Committee shall meet every other month in
months when the Board does not hold a regular meeting. The Committee shall appoint
a search committee for a President, recommend removal of a Trustee if necessary, and
take action, subject to Board ratification, on behalf of the Board in an emergency
situation when the Board cannot be convened. The Committee shall consider any other
items it deems appropriate.
The Committee shall be responsible for establishing and reviewing the compensation
program for the System and the compensation program shall be reviewed annually.
The Committee shall be responsible for review and approval of the organization
structure of the System; evaluation of leadership and approval of succession plans; and
oversight of the development and implementation of policies and programs to promote
diversity in the workplace. The Committee shall ensure that the Board is informed
about the range of Committee activities and shall make necessary action
recommendations to the Board in these areas.
Section 6. Facilities and Space Committee
The Facilities and Space Committee will be charged with reviewing new construction,
remodeling and major maintenance projects and other programs designed to maintain
or improve the capital facilities, consistent with the strategic direction of the Board.
The Committee shall review and approve a master plan for the System. The Committee
shall review and approve the space allocation in the System. The Committee shall
ensure that the Board is informed about the range of Committee activities and shall
make necessary action recommendations to the Board in these areas.
Section 7. Finance Committee.
The Finance Committee shall be charged with reviewing the annual operating and
capital budgets and monthly financial statements of operating funds as presented by
the President and CEO. The Committee shall have responsibility for review of wage and
salary plans and adjustments recommended by the President and CEO. The Committee
shall be involved in actions to provide necessary funds with which to meet the budget
and to secure proper sums from governmental agencies for the care of the indigent.
The Committee shall review expenditures of operating funds as required by law or
above certain limits set by the Board from time to time. The Committee shall be
involved generally in reviewing and approving any matter affecting the finances of the
institution. The Committee shall ensure that the Board is informed about the range of

10

 Committee activities and shall make necessary action recommendations to the Board in
these areas.
Section 8. Audit and Compliance Committee
The Audit and Compliance Committee shall be responsible for (i) oversight of the quality
and integrity of the System’s financial statements, (ii) oversight of the audit and review
of the System’s financial statements by the independent auditors, (iii) oversight of the
System’s compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and the independence and
performance of its independent auditors, (iv) recommending to the Board of Trustees
the appointment of the independent auditors, and (v) performing all other functions
prescribed by the Board of Trustees and permitted by applicable law. Unless otherwise
directed by the Board, the Audit Committee shall operate pursuant to a charter
approved by the Board. The Committee shall ensure that the Board is informed about
the range of Committee activities and shall make necessary action recommendations to
the Board in these areas.
Section 9. Quality and Safety Committee.
The Quality and Safety Committee shall be responsible for reviewing reports, and
discussing plans in the areas of medical and nursing quality assurance and patient
service improvement plans. The Committee shall ensure that the Board is informed
about and involved in clinical (medical, nursing, therapies, etc.) and administrative
activities geared toward continually improving the quality of services at the institution.
The Committee shall be responsible for establishing and maintaining external quality,
safety and customer service metrics. The Committee shall ensure that the Board is
informed about the range of Committee activities and shall make necessary action
recommendations to the Board in these areas.
Section 10. Legal and Government Relations Committee.
The Legal and Government Relations Committee shall have responsibility for overseeing
and recommending appropriate policies in the legal and contractual affairs of the
institution, including, but not limited to, risk management, claims management,
insurance, and compliance programs. The Committee shall also be responsible for
reviewing the bylaws, and requests for changes thereto, of the Board of Trustees,
Medical Staff, Foundation, auxiliaries or other self-governing bodies authorized by the
Board. The Committee shall also be responsible for the monitoring of relationships with
key elected officials, and reviewing reports on various governmental developments and
legislative activities at all levels of government. The Committee shall assist the Board to
fulfill its responsibility for ensuring high levels of governance performance and
contribution. The Committee shall also assist the Board in developing Board
recommendations to the County Executive and County Council regarding the
appointment and reappointment of Trustees; formulating policies regarding decision-

11

 making and overseeing governance effectiveness, efficiency, creativity and adaptability.
The Committee is charged with reviewing all Committee Charters from time to time or
as requested by the Board. The Committee shall ensure that the Board is informed
about the range of Committee activities and shall make necessary action
recommendations to the Board in these areas.
Section 11. Diversity Committee.
The Diversity Committee shall have responsibility for identifying and determining the
System’s position with regards to current and known diversity issues, and to formulate
a program to develop and recommend a sustainable diversity plan for the System: (i)
Outlining the basic strategy for developing a comprehensive, sustainable diversity and
inclusion model for the express purpose of delivering high quality accessible care for all
patients; (ii) The strategy and governance in addition to addressing areas of access for
all will focus on diversity of the institution’s supplier relationships, its employment
composition especially in areas that do not reflect its patient population and available
talent, and extends to a belief in collaboration and inclusiveness not only in the value of
demographic representation but in thought and in the richness of individual beliefs and
experiences; (iii) It is the expectation of this committee through its governance that
leadership will avail themselves of educational opportunities and exposure to best
practices in multiple industries and cultures. Further governance will encourage a
broad based appreciation of inclusion in all aspects of running the System as a means
of competitive advantage; and (iv) Through the support and governance of this
committee the CEO will be expected to adopt and incorporate these standards in
performing his/her duties and similarly will set forth the expectation that all leaders in
the System be held accountable for establishing and fostering this climate throughout
all aspects of our operations.
Section 12. Patient Experience Committee.
The Patient Experience Committee shall responsibility for providing good governance
oversight and support to the System’s leadership in connection with the System’s
activities relating to promoting and enhancing patient experience and engagement.
The Patient Experience Committee shall be responsible for oversight of and making
recommendations to the System regarding: (i) Developing and implementing a strategy
for enhancing and supporting exceptional patient experience; (ii) Review the
development of proposed initiatives and projects for Patient Experience and monitor the
ongoing performance of these initiatives and activities; (iii) Review reports and evaluate
the System’s mission of improving patient experience and engagement; (iv) As needed,
coordinate its work with other Board Committees including, but not limited to, the
Quality and Safety Committee; and (v) Evaluate progress relating to the System’s
objective of enhancing patient experience and engagement.

12

 Section 13. Community Engagement Committee.
The Community Engagement Committee shall have responsibility for providing
governance oversight and support in aligning the System’s community engagement
activities with its mission and to address the health needs of the community the System
serves and the purpose, functions and responsibilities of the Community Engagement
Committee are as provided in its Charter.
SPECIAL COMMITTEES
Section 14. Appellate Review Committee.
The Appellate Review Committee shall be composed of at least three members of the
Board and shall be appointed by the Chairperson when required by the appellate review
procedures of Article VII of the Medical Staff Bylaws. The Committee shall perform the
review function as outlined in Article VII of the Medical Staff Bylaws and make a
recommendation to the Board.
Section 15. Expedited Credentialing Committee.
The Expedited Credentialing Committee shall be composed of at least two members of
the Board and shall be appointed by the Chairperson. The Committee shall perform the
review function as outlined in Part III, Section 3.3.2 of the Medical Staff Bylaws and
Article X of these Bylaws to consider clinical privileges that meet the requirements for
such an expedited process between regularly scheduled meetings of the Board. Any
decision by the Expedited Credentialing Committee shall be reviewed and ratified by the
full Board at the Board meeting next following the Committee’s action.
ARTICLE VIII: INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE
Section 1. Indemnification.
The institution shall defend and indemnify, to the full extent now or hereafter permitted
by law, any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any
threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal,
administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that such person is or was a
Trustee, Officer, Employee or agent of the institution, or is or was serving at the
request of the institution as a Trustee, Officer, Employee, member, manger, or agent of
another corporation, domestic or foreign, nonprofit or for-profit, limited liability
company, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise; provided such person
acted in good faith in what he/she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the
best interest of the institution and, in the case of any criminal action or proceeding, had

13

 no reasonable cause to believe that his/her conduct was unlawful. As used in this
Section, the terms “liability” and “expense” shall include, but shall not be limited to,
counsel fees and disbursements, court costs, judgments, fines, penalties or excise taxes
against and amounts paid in settlement by a director, officer, employee, member,
manager, agent or volunteer other than amounts paid to the institution itself. The
termination of any civil or criminal claim, action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order,
settlement (whether with or without court approval), or conviction, or upon a plea of
guilty or of nolo contendere, or its equivalent shall not create a presumption that the
person did not meet the standards of conduct set forth in this Section. This Article VIII
shall be interpreted in all respects to expand such power to indemnify to the maximum
extent permissible under Ohio law with regard to the particular facts of each case, and
not in any way to limit any statutory or other power to indemnify or right of any
individual to indemnification.
However, the institution shall defend and indemnify any such agent (as opposed to any
Trustee, Officer, or Employee) of this institution to an extent greater than that required
by law only if and to the extent that the Trustees may, in their discretion, so determine.
The defense and indemnification provided hereby shall not be deemed exclusive of any
other rights to which those seeking defense and indemnification may be entitled under
any law, the articles of incorporation or any agreement, or otherwise, both as to action
in official capacities and as to action in another capacity while such person is a Trustee,
Officer, Employee or agent of the institution, and shall continue as to a person who has
ceased to be a Trustee, Officer, Employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the
heirs, executors and administrators of such a person.
Expenses incurred in defending any civil or criminal action, suit or proceeding or any
issue therein, including attorneys’ fees, may be paid by the institution in advance of
the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding as authorized by the Board of the
institution in each specific case, upon receipt of an undertaking by the director, officer,
employee, member, manager, agent or volunteer to repay such amounts unless it shall
ultimately be determined that he/she is entitled to be indemnified by the institution as
authorized in this Article XVIII.
Section 2. Insurance.
The institution may, to the full extent then permitted by law and authorized by the
Board, purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person described in Section 1
of this Article VIII against any liability asserted against and incurred by such person in
any capacity defined in Section 1, or arising out of said person's status as described in
Section 1, whether or not the institution would have the power to indemnify such
person against such liability.

14

 Section 3. Bonding.
In accordance with the Ohio Revised Code, the institution shall bond each Trustee for
the proper performance of his/her duties.
ARTICLE IX: CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Section 1. Appointment of Chief Executive Officer.
The Board shall select and appoint a chief executive officer who shall be its
representative in the management of the institution. The chief executive officer shall
have the title of President and Chief Executive Officer. The President and Chief
Executive Officer shall be given the necessary authority and responsibility to operate
the institution in all its activities and departments, subject only to such policies as may
be issued by the Board or by any of its Committees to which it has delegated power for
such action. The President and Chief Executive Officer shall act as the duly authorized
representative of the Board in all matters in which the Board has not formally
designated some other person to so act.
Section 2. Responsibility of President and Chief Executive Officer.
The authority and responsibility of the President and Chief Executive Officer shall be as
defined by the Board from time to time consistent with the provisions of Ohio Revised
Code Chapter 339.
Section 3. Review of Chief Executive Officer Performance.
The Board shall review the performance of the President and Chief Executive Officer,
which shall include the institutional objectives and goals established by the Board, from
time to time as the Board deems appropriate.
ARTICLE X: MEDICAL STAFF
Section 1. Organization and Bylaws.
The Board shall organize the physicians, dentists, podiatrists, psychologists,
optometrists, advanced practice providers and appropriate other persons granted
practice privileges in the institution into a Medical Staff under Medical Staff Bylaws
approved by the Board.
The Medical Staff Bylaws and Rules and Regulations shall be periodically reviewed and
amendments, thereto, shall be recommended by the Medical Staff for approval by the

15

 Board; provided, however, that nothing contained in the Medical Staff Bylaws or in
these Bylaws is intended to limit the statutory powers granted to the Board by the Ohio
Revised Code.
All privileged practitioners on the Medical Staff shall abide by the Medical Staff Bylaws
and the Medical Staff Rules and Regulations.
The President of the Medical Staff shall represent the Medical Staff at meetings of the
Board.
Section 2. Appointments.
The Board shall appoint, in numbers not exceeding the institution's needs, privileged
practitioners who meet the qualifications for such privileges as set forth in the Medical
Staff Bylaws.
All applications for appointments of Medical Staff privileges shall contain full information
concerning the applicant's education, licensure, practice, previous hospital experience,
and any unfavorable history with regard to licensure and hospital privileges. Institution
administration shall verify the authenticity of the applicant's credentials and the
appropriateness of the proposed appointment.
All initial appointments and reappointments to the Medical Staff shall be for a period of
not more than two years.
The Medical Executive Committee, representing the Medical Staff, shall make
recommendations through the President of the Medical Staff to the Board or, if
applicable, the Expedited Credentialing Committee, concerning granting of clinical
privileges; disciplinary actions; and all matters as may be referred to it by the Board.
All appointments for chairpersons of clinical departments shall be recommended by the
Chief Executive Officer and approved by the Board. Duties and responsibilities of the
clinical department chairpersons shall be set forth in the Medical Staff Bylaws.
Departmental chairpersons shall be required to maintain their qualifications for Medical
Staff membership and privileges appropriate to their assignments.
Section 3. Authority and Responsibility for Care.
The Board shall, in its exercise of its overall responsibility, assign to the Medical Staff
reasonable authority for ensuring appropriate professional care to the institution's
patients.
Each privileged practitioner appointed to the Medical Staff shall have appropriate
authority and responsibility for the care of his or her patients, subject to such limitations

16

 as are contained in the Bylaws, Rules and Regulations of the Medical Staff of the
institution and subject, further, to any limitations attached to his or her appointment.
Section 4. Evaluation of Care.
The Medical Staff shall conduct an ongoing review and appraisal of the quality of
professional care rendered in the institution and shall report such activities and their
results to the Board or its authorized committee.
Section 5. Hearings.
When an appointment is not to be renewed, or when privileges have been or are
proposed to be reduced, altered, suspended, or terminated, the privileged practitioner
involved shall be afforded the opportunity of a hearing and appellate review.
Procedures for such hearings and appeals shall be defined in the Medical Staff Bylaws,
approved by the Board, and shall ensure due process and afford full opportunity for the
presentation of all pertinent information. If the reason for the action is determined to
be purely administrative in nature and not involving the individual's medical
competence, the Board shall follow its usual personnel policies.
ARTICLE XI: VOLUNTARY ORGANIZATIONS
The Board welcomes the assistance of all voluntary organizations affiliated with the
institution to aid in the advancement of the goals and purposes of the institution. All
voluntary organizations shall adopt a formal statement of purpose and planned activities
either in the form of bylaws, rules and regulations, or other suitable documentation.
Such documents and any amendments to these documents shall be submitted to the
Board for approval.
ARTICLE XII: AMENDMENTS
These Bylaws of the Board may be amended by affirmative vote of a majority of the
total membership of the Board, provided that the text of any such proposed
amendments shall have been provided to each member of the Board at least ten days
prior to the meeting at which action is to be taken. When action to amend or revise the
Bylaws is taken, the date of such amendment or revision shall be noted in an
addendum to these Bylaws.

17

 ADDENDA
MISSION STATEMENT

Leading the way to a healthier you and a healthier community through service,
teaching, discovery and teamwork.

18

 ADDENDUM
AMENDMENTS AND REVISION TO THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM BYLAWS
Approved:
Amended:
Amended:
Revised:
Amended:
Amended:
Amended:
Amended:
Revised:
Revised:
Revised:
Amended:
Amended:
Amended:
Revised:
Revised:
Revised:
Revised:
Revised:
Revised:
Revised:
Amended:
Amended:
Amended:
Amended:
Revised:
Amended:

March 2, 1955
October 28, 1959
June 18, 1968
January 22, 1975
April 23, 1975
March 23, 1977
August 23, 1978
November 24, 1981
April 25, 1984
May 29, 1985
May 25, 1988
June 29, 1988
December 20, 1989
March 27, 1991
July 28, 1992
August 25, 1993
June 29, 1994
May 29, 1996
December 2005
May, 2007
November, 2007
August, 2008
August, 2009
September, 2011
June 28, 2017
March 28, 2018
July 25, 2018

19

 