THE NIETROHEALTH SYSTEM
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
FINANCE COMMITTEE
REGULAR NIEETDJG NHNUTES

DATE: Wednesday, October 17, 2018
TIME: 8:00 to 10:00 am
PLACE: MetroHealth Medical Center

K107, Business Services Building

COIVIMITTEE Mr. McDonald

TRUSTEES:

ADDITIONAL Ms. Dee Mr. Moss

TRUSTEES:

STAFF: B. Boulanger, M.D., A. Boutros, M.D., N. Chehade, M.D., G. Himes,
J. Platten, S. Rajlca, C. Richmond, B. Schwartz, M. Stern

GUESTS: A. Blake, J. Evans (I-Iartland)

Mr. McDonald called the regular meeting of the Finance Committee to order at 8:02 am. Please note the
minutes are written to conform to the printed agenda and are not necessarily in the order of discussion.

I.

H.

The minutes of the regular meeting held on July 18, 2018 were approved as presented.
INFORMATION ITEMS

Mr. McDonald introduced Adam Blake, Senior Managing Director and John Evans, Director from
Hartland, The MetroHealth System?s investment advisors. Mr. Blake took the committee through an
investment presentation that covered the overall implementation strategy, investment approach, as
well as the portfolio?s current performance since the implementation of the strategy.

Craig Richmond, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Of?cer provided an overview of the
Third Quarter 2018 Unaudited Financial and Operations Results for the period ended September 30,
2018. Mr. Richmond reported that Adjusted Earnings before Interest, Depreciation and
AmOItization for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $76.1 million, an
increase of $10-6 million or 16.2 percent over the same period in 2017 which had an EBIDA of
$65.5 million. EBIDA increase was mainly attributed to growth from emergency department
volumes, patient acuity, surgical volumes, expanded pharmacy operations, lower liability insurance
costs, and supplemental payments from the Care Innovation and Community Improvement Program
(CICIP).

Mr. Richmond further reported that total operating income for the nine months ended September 30,
2018 was $32.3 million, compared with operating income of $24.7 million in the same period of
2017, an increase of $7.6 million or 30.8 percent.

Total operating revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $891.0 million as
compared to $836.8 million in the same period of 20 17, an increase of ?6.5 percent. he net patient
service revenue component increased $42.5 million or 5.9 percent. Key drivers of the increased net
patient revenue include modest improvement in payer mix, higher overall acuity of cases, emergency

Finance Committee Meeting Minutes
October 17, 2018
Page 2 of 3

department and surgical volumes, and the program. The other operating revenue component
increased $11.7 million or 9.8 percent mainly driven by growth in retail and contract pharmacy
operations.

Mr. Richmond noted the System recorded total operating expenses of $814.9 million for the nine
months ended September 30, 2018 as compared to $771.3 million for the same period in 2017, which
is an increase of $43.6 million or 5.7 percent, comparing favorably to the total operating revenue
increase of $54.2 million. Similar to prior quarter, most of the increase was in salary, wages and
bene?ts for additional staff to accommodate volume growth, purchased services and pharmacy costs
associated with the retail pharmacy expansion.

Mr. Richmond provided a review of the Statement of Net Position as of September 30, 2018 as
compared to December 31, 2017. Areas of note were $14.5 million increase in other receivables
due to the timing of the Hospital Care Assurance Program (HCAP) payments and the CICIP
program; (ii) net capital assets increased $38.3 million due to costs associated with the View Road
parking garage and transformation planning/design services, and restricted assets under bond
indenture agreement decreased $49.6 million from prior year-end balances due to interest payments
and Bond Fund draws during the period. Total liabilities decreased by $1.9 million which was
mainly due to the timing of payments for accounts payable, payroll and professional liability claims.

Mr. Richmond reviewed Unrestricted Cash and Investment balances, noting that the third quarter of
2018 increased $31.9 million from prior year-end due to the operating performance discussed, the
timing of payments, as well as receipts from the program. Regarding MetroHealth?s bond
covenants and rating agency median ratios? the System?s bond covenants (days cash on hand and
minimum debt service coverage ratio) are within compliance. Lastly, the Advisory Board Credit
Rating Strength Diagnostic Tool which measures the system?s ?nancial metrics against benchmarks
derived from hospital medians of the major credit rating agencies was referenced, as well as the
Capital Budget Summary.

Michael Stern, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Of?cer, and Bernard Boulanger, MD,
Executive Vice President and Chief Clinical Of?cer, provided an overview of the Operating
Performance Volumes for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 comparing to the same period
in 2017. Inpatient discharges were up compared to prior year. Overall length of stay has
increased and the overall case mix index (CMI) was up for the year at 1.63 compared to 1.57 in
2017. Mr. Stern commented that opportunities to reduce the length of stay will continue to be an
area of focus. Life Flight helicopter transports are down compared to last year other hospitals have
reduced the need of using our helicopter services for their patient transports.

Geoff Himes, Vice President of Finance provided an Accounting and Financial Reporting update.
The update included a review of GASB Statement No. 68 Pension and GASB Statement No. 75 
Other Postemployment Bene?ts, as well as other guidance that will impact MetroHealth in future
?scal years. The impact of GASB 68 and GASB 75 will be recorded in the fourth quarter Of2018,
which is consistent with prior year practices-

ITEMS

A. There are no items to report at this time.

IV. CONSENT ITEMS

Finance Committee Meeting Minutes
October 17, 2018
Page 3 of 3
A. A Recommendation for the Allocation of Additional Capital Funds for 2018
The Committee unanimously approved the recommendation for full Board action.
B. A Recommendation for the Purchase of Certain Capital Equipment
The Committee unanimously approved the recommendation for ?ill Board action-
C. A Recommendation for Certain Annual Purchasing Policies and Procedures
The Committee unanimously approved the recommendation for full Board action.
At this point in the meeting a motion was made, seconded and passed to move the Committee into
Executive Session to discuss trade secrets and litigation matters. The Committee returned to regular

session at 9:40 am.

D. A Recommendation for a Proposed Budget for the 2019 Fiscal Year and to Authorize the
Submission of the same to the Government of Cuyahoga County, Ohio (?County?).

The Committee unanimously approved the recommendation for full Board action.

E. A Recommendation for the Approval of a Lease to Establish a Health Center for Clinical
Services

The Committee unanimously approved the recommendation for full Board action.
There being no ?irther business to bring before the Committee, the meeting was adjourned at 9:44 am.
Respectfully 
Craig Richmond

Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Of?cer

