BOARD OF TRUSTEES
The MetroHealth System
Date:

January 23, 2019

Time:

8:00 a.m.

Place:

The MetroHealth System Board Room

Present:

Ms. Dee, Mr. Hurwitz, Mr. McDonald, Mr. Monnolly (via phone), Mr. Moss, Dr. Silvers,
Ms. Whiting

Staff:

Dr. Boutros, Dr. Boulanger, Ms. Brown, Dr. Chehade, Mr. Jones, Ms. Kline, Mr. Phillips,
Ms. Platten, Mr. Richmond, Mr. Stern, Dr. Watts, Dr. Werner

Guests:

Mr. Brian M. O’Neill, Chair, Board of Directors, The MetroHealth Foundation;
Dr. Patricia Thomas, Vice Dean of Medical Education, Case Western Reserve University
School of Medicine
MINUTES OF MEETING

The meeting was called to order by Mr. McDonald at 8:00 a.m.
(The minutes are written in a format conforming to the printed meeting agenda for the convenience of
correlation, recognizing that some of the items were discussed out of sequence.)
1.

Minutes
The Board approved the Minutes of the Regular Meeting of November 28, 2018.
RESOLUTION 19253.

2.

Consent Agenda
A.

Audit and Compliance Committee
1.

The Board unanimously approved the continued engagement of KPMG as the
System’s Internal Audit consultant, for the purpose of providing management,
assistance, advice and guidance with performing enterprise risk assessments,
prioritizing risks and associated audits, providing oversight of Information
Technology (IT) audits and reporting to management and the Audit Committee
of the Board of Trustees, for the year 2019, with cost not to exceed $875,000
and associated expenses not to exceed $20,000, to be paid out of general
operating funds. RESOLUTION 19254.

B.

Community Engagement Committee – None

C.

Diversity Committee – None

D.

Executive Committee – No Meeting

E.

Facilities and Space Committee – No Meeting

 F.

G.

3.

Finance Committee
1.

The Board unanimously approved the renewal of the Office/Hangar Lease as
more fully described in Attachment A. RESOLUTION 19255.

2.

The Board unanimously approved the amendment of the agreement with HGA
Architects and Engineers, LLC to provide additional architectural and engineering
services for the Campus Transformation Project. The total fees for this
additional work shall not exceed $53,300, for a total amended fee amount not to
exceed $31,909,453, to be paid out of capital funds previously approved through
Board Resolution 19088. RESOLUTION 19256.

3.

The Board unanimously approved the amendment of the agreement with
Donley’s Inc. as the System’s construction manager at risk for the Project. The
total fees for this additional work shall not exceed $625,500, for a total amended
fee amount not to exceed $25,125,500, to be paid out of capital funds previously
approved through Board Resolution 19088. RESOLUTION 19257.

Legal and Government Relations Committee
1.

The Board unanimously approved the reaffirmation of the Policy relative to the
Open Meetings Law for 2018-2019. RESOLUTION 19258.

2.

The Board unanimously confirmed and ratified the settlement of professional and
general liability claims at or under $100,000 for 2018 in the amount set forth in
the detailed listing of these claim settlements in the confidential addendum
which is made a part of this Resolution, to be paid from the general operating
fund. RESOLUTION 19259.

3.

The Board unanimously confirmed and ratified the settlement of the Bureau of
Workers’ Compensation claims at or under $100,000 for 2018 in the amount set
forth in the detailed listing of these claim settlements in the confidential
addendum which is made a part of this Resolution, to be paid from the Workers’
Compensation Fund. RESOLUTION 19260.

H.

Nominating Committee – No Meeting

I.

Patient Experience Committee – No Meeting

J.

Quality and Safety Committee – No Meeting

President and CEO’s Report
Dr. Boutros began by indicating his report is in the Board Book and elaborated on a few recent
events taking place since that time. He indicated that many attendees at the Board meeting
were able to listen to the January 22, 2019, local Cleveland Coalition at Cleveland City Hall
concerningLead Safe Cleveland
. Cleveland officials and members of health care and
environmental organizations came together at City Hall to discuss lead poisoning in the City of
Cleveland and he informed the Board that MetroHealth is leading the way just as it did with
MetroHealth’s dealing with the first cholera epidemic, the Tuberculosis Center, the HIV Center
and the only Ebola Center in Ohio.
Dr. Boutros informed the Board that the Cuyahoga County Council approved the appointment of
John M. Hairston, Jr. to the Board effective immediately through February 2021. Mr. Hairston
previously was employed at NASA and was the District Director for the 11th District
2

 Congressional Office under Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge. Dr. Boutros was appointed to the
Governor’s Task Force on home care which involves home visits for children; MetroHealth is the
only non-children’s hospital represented on the Task Force. Melissa Kline recommended Kimberly
Green, Director of Nursing Service, to represent MetroHealth in filling that position. MetroHealth
is currently working with the Governor’s Office to participate on the Task Force related to opioid
addiction and mental health and will be recommending Dr. Joan Papp to fill that role.
4.

Nursing/Magnet Report – Melissa Kline, Chief Nursing Officer
Ms. Kline began her report by discussing the Affiliation Agreement with Frances Payne Bolton
School of Nursing and, due to the strengthening of that affiliation, MetroHealth secured seven
staff appointments for 2019. Her year-end review indicated the following activities related to
Nursing: 21 publications, 11 in press for 2019; 26 presentations at conferences; 41 ongoing IRB
approved studies where a nurse is a primary investigator; 1,412 nurses or 79.1% are Bachelors
prepared workforce; and 532 nurses were certified, which has more than doubled since 2013.

5.

Medical Staff
A.

Report of Medical Staff President – Dr. Sandra Werner
Dr. Werner began by thanking everyone who attended the annual holiday party held in
December 2018 for the Medical Staff. Dr. Joe Carter was an ENT doctor who was a
phenomenal physician, employee, and care provider who was loved by his patients and
was taken from MetroHealth and his family much too early. Every year an APP and
physician are recognized at the annual party who live up to the standards of Joe Carter,
this year recognizing and congratulating Rebecca Lowenthal, an Express Care Physician,
and Aliza Bartunek, an Ambulatory APRN Provider, for going above and beyond and
receiving the Joe Carter Awards for 2018. Dr. Werner stated in 2019 Medical Staff will
be focusing on physician wellness and engagement with the Department Chairs. Future
Medical Staff meetings will be held off campus in the early evening four times a year
using a central location in hopes that more staff actively participate. At the request of
Dr. Werner, Mr. McDonald made a motion and the Board unanimously approved the
Medical Staff Appointments and Actions for November and December 2018, as well as
the Medical Executive Committee Minutes of November 9, 2018, and December 14, 2018.

B.

Approval of Medical Staff Providers Appointments and Actions –
November/December 2018
1. The Board unanimously approved the Medical Staff Providers Appointments and
Actions for November/December 2018. RESOLUTION 19261.

C.

Medical Executive Committee Minutes – November 9, 2018, and
December 14, 2018

D.

Report of Case Western Reserve University (CWRU), School of Medicine –
Dr. Patricia Thomas
Dr. Thomas attended the meeting but had nothing to report.

6.

Audit and Compliance Committee
A.

Report of Committee Chairperson Silvers
Dr. Silvers stated that extensive meetings on Audit and Compliance were held with Cheryl
Forino Wahl, and he commended her on a great job. He stated that MetroHealth has
3

 applied for the World’s Most Ethical Company status and Ms. Wahl showed in depth the
documentation involved and submitted with the application. At this meeting the Internal
Audit and the External Audit plans were approved. Dr. Silvers noted an extensive report
on Cyber Security and an IS update was given, and he commended MetroHealth’s IS
team on a job well done.
Mr. Richmond reported that the meeting began with a discussion with RSM, which is the
construction advisory services side of RSM, not to be confused with the External Audit
side of RSM. RSM was hired to assist MetroHealth in performing construction cost review
services prior to the expansion of the Critical Care Pavilion and are now focused on
assisting with services concerning the Campus Transformation construction cost review.
John Croy, Executive Director at RSM, will be overseeing a controlled environment that
will be performing a review on a regular basis of the guaranteed maximum price
contracts and major vendor and contractor invoices. Cheryl Wahl gave a fourth quarter
update on the Compliance Program and reported that 85% of the annual Ethics and
Compliance Work Plan for 2018 was complete. As Dr. Silvers’ mentioned, the
Compliance Department completed the 2019 Application for the World’s Most Ethical
Company and completed over 204 live training sessions for employees, contractors,
volunteers, and the Board of Trustees since revising the Code of Conduct in 2018. The
2019 Ethics and Compliance Work Plan was developed which included over 300 new
projects, noting 70% of the projects are new for 2019. Jim Mylen, a partner with KPMG
and responsible for our Internal Audit at MetroHealth, was recently promoted to the
Office Managing Partner of KPMG and is MetroHealth’s Director of Internal Audit. Mr.
Mylen reported that Internal Audit is using analytics to review entire populations versus
taking a sample based approach and stated that the 2019 Internal Audit Plan had been
established. To achieve a quest for excellence, a Financial Reporting Disclosure
Committee was implemented in the fourth quarter of 2018 that reviews potential
disclosures, a practice that publicly traded companies use in the disclosure of their
financial reporting. David Fiser, Vice President and Chief Information Officer, joined
MetroHealth in the Summer of 2018 from Akron General and made his primary focus on
MetroHealth’s cyber security posture and environment, noting a new phishing solution
was implemented that involved education awareness of the 7,000 employees at
MetroHealth.
B.

Non-Consent Agenda
1. Action Items - None
2. Information Items
a. 2018 Internal Audit Update & 2019 Internal Audit Plan
b. 2018 Compliance Update & 2019 Compliance Work Plan
c. Transformation Project Construction Cost Review
d. Cyber Security & IT Update

7.

Community Engagement Committee - Cancelled

8.

Diversity Committee
A.

Report of Committee Chairperson
Ms. Whiting stated an update was given on the 2018 diversity goals, noting that there
were 21 goals coming through Diversity and, moving forward, there will be a focus on
fewer goals. Diversity highlights for 2018 included Project REaL, which involved race,
ethnicity, and language data collection. It is her understanding that Project REaL is
being promoted for an award nationally. Dr. Boutros reported that Project REaL started
approximately a year and a half ago and, fast forwarding to 2019, MetroHealth is almost
100% compliant on our electronic medical records and MetroHealth is being nominated
4

 for an award. Ms. Whiting noted that Diversity and Inclusion had conducted several
nursing and transgender job fairs, is leading in the Cleveland area in hiring returning
citizens, and a robust discussion ensued around physician and physician assistant
recruitment. Ms. Whiting stated that she and Arlene Anderson will meet with the
physicians, recruiters, and recruiting providers to determine what plans and challenges
there are and to set goals and expectations on the physician side of Diversity and
Inclusion.
B.

Non-Consent Agenda
1. Action Items - None
2. Information Items
a. HR Transformation/2018 Enterprise Diversity Goals Update
b. Office of Inclusion & Diversity
c. Human Resources
d. Supplier Diversity
e. Campus Transformation

9.

Executive Committee – No Meeting

10.

Facilities and Space Committee – No Meeting

11.

Finance Committee
A.

Report of Committee Chairperson Silvers
Dr. Silvers stated that 2018 was a good year and indicated MetroHealth is at
approximately $1.2 billion in revenue and approximately $2 billion assets, a significantly
sized organization. MetroHealth is currently up over $100 million in earnings which
affected the cash flow and operating earnings and currently holds a BBB- rating for
statistics and the amount for targets. He indicated that without the OPERS adjustment,
MetroHealth has approximately $500 million of equity (Net Position); with OPERS,
MetroHealth is below zero. Dr. Boutros stated MetroHealth is a negative $340 million,
but noted that MetroHealth does not have a legal obligation for the amount for OPERS;
this is only an accounting number as MetroHealth continues to fulfill its legal obligation
with the State law which is to pay MetroHealth’s portion of the employees’ OPERS. Dr.
Silvers stated that MetroHealth is doing well with the bond covenants and ahead in terms
of targets.
Mr. Richmond reviewed the two bond covenants and noted that we have a Debt Service
Coverage Ratio and a Days’ Cash on Hand one. He stated MetroHealth is well above the
bond covenant requirements and above what other BBB- credit indicates in the market
place. MetroHealth has achieved over $107 million in EBITDA, an increase of almost
12% over the prior year; the current EBITDA is 8.9%, while the EBITDA margin last year
was 8.5%. Operating Income was $49 million, an increase of approximately 18-19%
over the prior year. The Operating Margin was 4.1% in 2018 compared to 3.7% in 2017.
Mr. Richmond reported MetroHealth continues to show growth and that the organization
is 100% focused on delivering on noted commitments made to Bond investors that
allowed us to borrow to proceed with the Campus Transformation Project. Other reasons
for the increase in growth: volumes for the four Emergency Departments; patient acuity;
surgical volumes; expansion of pharmacy operations; improvements with lower liability
insurance costs; and additional funding received from supplemental programs.

5

 B.

12.

Non-Consent Agenda
1. Action Items - None
2. Information Items
a. Unaudited 2018 Financial and Operational Results
b. Accounting & Financial Reporting for Pensions (GASB 68) and Postemployment
Benefits (GASB 75)
c. 2018 Operating Performance Volumes
d. 2018 Capital Projects Review
e. Schedule of Charges Update

Legal and Government Relations Committee
A.

Report of Committee Chairperson Whiting
Ms. Whiting stated that the Committee met on December 12, 2018, and approved the
three resolutions approved in the Consent Agenda at this meeting. She reported that
MetroHealth has 36 open claims, 18 lawsuits, with reserves of $6.6 million, noting that
our risk exposure is estimated at half of our claims and that the claims are half of what
they have been at peak. There are issues involving the Jail for which no claims have
been received to date, noting MetroHealth holds a separate policy for any Jail claims, the
premiums for which are paid by Cuyahoga County. There has been a restructuring of the
Risk staff which involved the hiring of an operations non-clinical risk manager and we are
searching for a clinical risk manager. Lastly, Ms. Whiting stated one potential claim will
be discussed in Executive Session today.
Mr. Phillips updated the Board noting that since the Committee meeting a clinical risk
manager had been hired who has significant experience both as a nurse and as a lawyer.
He also noted that in talking about insurance and claims being down this also has driven
down liability insurance costs while we have had significant growth. The insurance and
liability industry reviews risk exposures around volumes and, while those volumes have
increased, our performance in terms of risk has not increased. In short, he noted
performance has gone up and claims have gone down.
Dr. Boutros elaborated on Mr. Phillips statement. MetroHealth’s medical malpractice risk
exposures have increased over 25% in the last five years with growth and premium costs
for the same coverage decreasing by approximately 25%. He stated MetroHealth has
had a two-year rate agreement for the major portion of liability insurance coverage, but
this year MetroHealth plans on going to Zurich to determine if there are better rates in
other consortiums other than the Lloyds market.

B.

Non-Consent Agenda
1. Action Items - None
2. Information Items
a. Risk Management Report

13.

Nominating Committee – No Meeting

14.

Patient Experience Committee – No Meeting

15.

Quality and Safety Committee – No Meeting

6

 16.

Foundation and System Philanthropy Report – Kate Brown – President, The
MetroHealth Foundation and MHS Chief Development Officer
Ms. Brown stated that 2018 was a great year in terms of philanthropy, with the community
contributing approximately $23.2 million to the organization compared to $12 million in 2017. In
December, 2018 a substantial estate gift of approximately $1.2 million was given by Rita
Doubeck who had no relationship with MetroHealth but had asked her advisers where she should
designate her funds. Her advisers were familiar with our organization and introduced her to
MetroHealth. The MetroHealth Foundation Board has shown 100% support under Brian O’Neill’s
leadership.

17.

Other Board Items

Executive Session
A motion was unanimously passed by roll call vote to go into Executive Session to discuss litigation
matters, trade secrets and employment matters.
Following the Executive Session, the meeting reconvened in open session at approximately 10:10 a.m.
The Chair noted the discussion surrounding the settlement of Claim No. 17-23-0516 with Laura McBride.
There being no further questions, the Board unanimously authorized and ratified settlement of Claim
No. 17-23-0516 in an amount not to exceed $117,500. RESOLUTION 19262.
The Chair noted the discussion surrounding the settlement of Claim No. 17-28-0117 with Laura McBride.
There being no further questions, the Board unanimously authorized and ratified settlement of Claim
No. 17-28-0117 in amount not to exceed the maximum limits of $1,250,000. RESOLUTION 19263.
The meeting adjourned at approximately 10:15 a.m.
NEXT MEETING:

March 27, 2019 (WEDNESDAY) – 8:00 a.m.
The MetroHealth System
Respectfully submitted,

Thomas McDonald, Chairperson

Akram Boutros, M.D., FACHE
President and Chief Executive Officer

7

 