THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LEGAL & GOVERNMENT RELATIONS COMMITTEE
March 13, 2019
Present: Committee Members: Thomas M. McDonald, Vanessa Whiting
Other Trustees:

John M. Hairston, Jr., Dr. J.B. Silvers

Staff:

Dr. Akram Boutros, Dr. Bernard Boulanger, Stacey Booker, Tracy Carter,
Dr. Joseph Golob, Bridget Jones, Melissa Kline, Laura McBride,
Michael Phillips, Jane Platten, Michael Stern, Craig Richmond,
Dr. Brook Watts

Guests:

The Joint Commission
Mark G. Pelletier, R.N., M.S., Chief Operating Officer, Accreditation
and Certification Operations, and Chief Nursing Executive
Ana Pujois McKee, M.D., Executive Vice President and
Chief Medical Officer

The meeting was called to order at 12:30 p.m. by Ms. Whiting. The minutes are written in a format
conforming to the printed meeting agenda for the convenience of correlation, recognizing that some of
the items were discussed out of sequence.
I.

The Committee approved the minutes of the December 12, 2018 meeting.

II.

Consent Items (Acted upon following the discussion described below).
1.

Recommendation to the President and Chief Executive Officer of The MetroHealth
System to Approve a Claim Settlement
After discussion with the Board, this Consent Item was tabled to be discussed in
Executive Session and voted upon in Open Session at the end of the meeting.

III.

Discussion Items


Visit and Update from the Joint Commission – Dr. Brook Watts / Stacey Booker
- Video, Getting to Zero
- Guests from The Joint Commission
o Chief Medical Officer, Ana Pujols McKee, MD
o Chief Operating Officer, Mark G. Pelletier, RN, MS
The Committee welcomed Ms. McKee and Mr. Pelletier from The Joint Commission to
MetroHealth. At the conclusion of the video preview, Mr. Pelletier stated it was an
honor to visit at MetroHealth and appreciated the time spent attending rounds with
nursing staff and congratulated everyone with the progress made at MetroHealth
concerning preventable harms in the Patient Safety Scores; he then formally introduced
himself as the Chief Operating Officer and the Chief Nurse Executive and stated he has

 been with The Joint Commission for 11 years. Ms. McKee introduced herself as the
Chief Medical Officer and expressed her inspiration on moving along the journey side by
side with MetroHealth in developing policy theory, standards, and new rules, noting that
Dr. Boutros and the staff at MetroHealth should be proud of the unique matters being
undertaken such as seeing for herself the Emergency Department, Internal Medicine, and
the emergency transport company communicating and working together. Dr. Boutros
stated management is proud not only what the staff does daily revolving around quality
and safety but the joy he experiences seeing that the staff goes above and beyond the
compassion and care given to patients, so much so that the staff tries to outdo one
another past the medical part of patient care. Dr. Boutros reported: MetroHealth
reduced opioid prescribing by 50% in the last three years; MetroHealth has saved more
lives over the last eight or nine years in Cuyahoga County through Project DAWN
(Death Avoided With Naloxone); it is believed that MetroHealth is the first hospital in
the nation to distribute pre-Naloxone kits to lay people; and the Office of Opioid Safety
recently hired its 19th employee.
Mr. Pelletier reviewed with the Board of Trustees that they are not only accountable and
responsible for the delivery of care throughout MetroHealth but, where best practices in
strategy and finance used to be at the top in reports, quality is becoming the priority and
the culture of safety within organizations are being discussed, noting it is important that
staff feels comfortable speaking up when something is broken or being done wrong.
Mr. Pelletier stated in attending rounds with Ms. Hannu going from unit to unit and
watching the interaction of Ms. Kline and her team with the staff that he felt like it was a
family within a community and it was clear staff felt comfortable speaking up using
Concerned Uncomfortable Safety (CUS). Dr. Boutros stated that MetroHealth may be
the only hospital in the nation where every employee has received TeamSTEPPS training
in orientation; Dr. Golob added that not only does every employee receive TeamSTEPPS
training, but MetroHealth has become a regional training center whereby people around
the world come to MetroHealth to receive training and see firsthand how MetroHealth
utilizes TeamSTEPPS.
Dr. McKee addressed the Board’s role in overseeing safety and the oversight of
challenging management as an integral part of the process. She quoted Gary Kaplan,
Chairman/CEO of Virginia Mason Health System, stating, the board is the most under
leveraged leader in health care, noting multiple practices that a board can adopt to
approve and manage oversight over safety and the quality strategic plan of the
organization. The last item she discussed was the Oro 2.0 High Reliability
Organizational Assessment online tool designed to assist hospitals in evaluating the
progress in attaining the goal of zero patient harm.
Due to the confidential nature of matters to be discussed, a motion was unanimously passed by roll call
vote to go into Executive Session to discuss trade secrets and pending litigation.

2

 

Government Relations Update – Tracy Carter
Ms. Carter discussed a variety of Government Relations initiatives, including the
Frontline Alliance, blockchain and various additional federal, state and local matters.



Risk Management Report/Annual Claims Update
Ms. McBride discussed pending litigation, information regarding MetroHealth claims,
both current and historical, and a proposed claim settlement. She and members of the
Committee also discussed various risks and Risk Management in general.

Following the Executive Session, the meeting reconvened in open session at approximately 1:55 p.m.
IV.

Action Items

The Chair noted that the Chief Risk Officer had made a detailed presentation of the matter surrounding
the settlement of Claim Identification No. 14-02-0913R. There being no further questions, the Board
unanimously approved the settlement of Claim Identification No. 14-02-0913R.
There being no further business, the meeting adjourned at 2:00 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,

Michael Phillips
Senior Vice President and Chief Legal Officer

3

 