NORTHEAST OHIO AREAWIDE COORDINATING AGENCY
MEMORANDUM
TO:

Policy Committee Members

Samuel Alai, Mayor City of Broadview Heights
Annette M. Blackwell, Mayor, City of Maple Heights
Pamela Bobst, Mayor, City of Rocky River
Jeff Brandon, Trustee, Montville Township
Armond Budish, County Executive, Cuyahoga County
Ben Capelle, General Manager, Laketran
Freddy L. Collier, Director, Cleveland City Planning Commission
Andrew Conrad, County Engineer, Medina County
William Friedman, President and CEO, Cleveland – Cuyahoga County Port Authority
John R. Hamercheck, Commissioner, Lake County
Susan Infeld, Interim Director & Manager, Special Initiatives, Cuyahoga County Planning
Commission
Lori Kokoski, Commissioner, Lorain County
Timothy Lennon, Commissioner, Geauga County
Matt Lundy, Commissioner, Lorain County
Valarie McCall, Chief, Communications, Government and International Affairs, City of
Cleveland
John Picuri, Deputy Director, ODOT District 12
Joseph F. Koziura, Mayor, City of Lorain
David H. Roche, Mayor, City of Richmond Heights
Matt Spronz, Director, Office of Capital Projects, City of Cleveland
Robert Stefanik, Mayor, City of North Royalton
Michael P. Summers, Mayor, City of Lakewood
Matt Zone, Councilman, Ward 15, City of Cleveland

FROM:

Commissioner Timothy Lennon, Chair

DATE:

July 5, 2019

RE:

Policy Committee
Friday, July 12, 2019 from 10:00 a.m. to 11:30 a.m.
NOACA Offices
1299 Superior Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio

I look forward to seeing you on Friday, July 12th at 10:00 a.m. at the NOACA offices.

 July 12, 2019, 10:00 a.m. – 11:30 a.m.
NOACA Offices
1299 Superior Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114
POLICY COMMITTEE AGENDA

1. Minutes of April 12, 2019 Meeting

Page

1-1

2. Public Comments on Current Agenda Items

Oral

3. Chair’s/Executive Director’s Report

Oral

4. Action Items (none)

4-1

5. Presentation/Discussion Items
a. Future action
i. NOACA Complete and Green Streets Policy
b. Information
i. NOACA’s Water Quality Management Plan (208 Plan)
Policy to Consider Development Impact of Proposed
Wastewater Facility Planning Area (FPA) Modifications
ii. Transportation for Livable Communities Initiative (TLCI)
Program Update
6. Old Business
7. New Business
8. Adjourn

Next Regular Meeting:

Friday, October 11, 2019 at 10:00 a.m.
NOACA Offices, 1299 Superior Avenue in Cleveland

5-1

5-7
5-9

 Agenda Item 0. 1

MINUTES

 

NOACA Policy Committee Meeting
April 12, 2019
NOACA Offices
1299 Superior Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114
Present: Please see the attached attendance record.
Commissioner Tim Lennon, Chair of the Policy Committee, convened the meeting at
10:05 a.m.
Meeting Minutes
A motion was made by Commissioner Matt Lundy to approve the minutes of the Policy
Committee meeting held on January 18, 2019. The motion was seconded by Chief Valarie
McCall. The motion passed by voice vote.
Public Involvement
No public comments were made at this meeting.
Executive Director’s Report
Ms. Grace Gallucci stated that NOACA Transportation Day will be held at Cleveland State
University Maxine Goodman Levin College of Urban Affairs on May 3, 2019, 9:00 a.m. – 4:00
p.m. Ms. Gallucci reviewed the agenda for the event.
Commissioner Lennon asked if economic development directors will be invited to the event.
Ms. Gallucci said yes and noted that the economic development directors will be asked to
help facilitate the breakout sessions in the afternoon.
ACTION ITEMS
No action items were presented at this meeting.
PRESENTATION / DISCUSSION ITEMS
NOACA’s Water Quality Management Plan (208 Plan) - Current Wastewater Facility
Planning Area (FPA) Modification Policies
Mr. Joe MacDonald stated that NOACA is a water quality management agency that is required
to maintain and update the region’s 208 Plan. He provided background on FPAs which consist
of boundaries and prescriptions for wastewater treatment. Mr. MacDonald reviewed the FPA
planning process; FPA modification policies; criteria considered under the policies;
development of the new 208 Plan; and the development of FPA policy recommendations. He
stated that environmental or economic impacts related to urban sprawl, development versus
non-development impact of modifications, regional impacts, and planning documents are not
explicitly considered under the current policies. He mentioned that local jurisdictions can
apply more stringent wastewater treatment criteria with the prescriptions for wastewater
treatment.
8198c

1-1

 Mr. MacDonald stated that NOACA staff will continue to work with the Policy Committee on
the 208 Plan Wastewater Infrastructure Development Impact Policy. He mentioned that staff
created to two questionnaires: The wastewater decision makers questionnaire that will be
distributed this month and the “208 Public” questionnaire that will be distributed in May 2019.
He also mentioned that NOACA will be holding public outreach meetings in June 2019.
Ms. Gallucci stated that Mayor Michael Summers, along with several other Board members,
brought up development impacts at a Board meeting during a discussion about the Medina
County-Wadsworth FPA modification. Ms. Gallucci mentioned that some Board members
questioned whether NOACA was contributing to urban sprawl by not considering development
issues when it approves FPA boundary changes. She said there are currently no criteria in
the existing 208 Plan that states the issue can be reviewed by NOACA.
Ms. Gallucci stated that when staff reviewed the Medina County-Wadsworth FPA modification
request, information was sent out to the Board, but nothing was included on development
impacts. She reminded members that the 208 Plan Wastewater Infrastructure Development
Impact Policy is one of the Committee’s focus areas for this year. She noted that EPA would
like local governments to be in control of the issue, decide what is right for themselves, and is
willing to yield to what NOACA wants to do and has agreed to work with staff. Ms. Gallucci
asked the Committee if development impacts should be included in NOACA’s analysis, review
and evaluation of FPA boundary changes.
Commissioner Lennon asked if NOACA would have an advisory role or would it set the
boundaries. Ms. Gallucci said every couple of decades, NOACA does a comprehensive
review of FPAs in partnership with the cities, townships and counties and conducts public
hearings. She stated that more commonly, NOACA receives requests, reviews modifications,
and has the final say. She noted that 50% of the FPA boundary modification requests
submitted to NOACA has been for development purposes. Ms. Gallucci stated that
development impacts could be one of the criteria staff looks at when evaluating requests that
will be presented to the Board for approval. She noted that if the Board chooses not to
approve an FPA boundary change, it could hinder the development.
Mr. Foley said development impacts should be part of NOACA’s analysis.
Mayor Samuel Alai cautioned the Committee against having a knee-jerk reaction because of
one modification issue submitted to NOACA.
Mr. Jordan stated that NOACA provides an avenue for FPA updates, but it cannot legislate
poor decision making out of existence. He noted that NOACA could remain impartial, continue
to follow its guidelines and processes, and provide an avenue for the affected parties to reach
a consensus. He noted that even if a framework is laid out, local municipalities may still
proceed with a development if they have the resources, even if it is not a good idea. He said
modifying the system will not prevent people from making poor decisions.
Ms. Susan Infeld stated that NOACA is responsible for looking at FPA issues holistically and
consider situations that could cause great harm.
Councilman Matt Zone stated that development impacts should be looked at comprehensively
and holistically and there should be investments made in the region’s precious little resources
in a sustainable way. He noted that NOACA is the perfect entity to have those conversations
8198c

1-2

 moving forward. He said he would be reticent to support any future requests presented to the
Board for potential funding that are contrary to NOACA’s policies and practices.
Mr. Jim Cordes stated that most FPA modifications in Lorain County have ended in litigation
and bad will still exists between the affected parties. Ms. Gallucci stated that the affected
parties involved in most of the FPA modifications submitted to NOACA have been able to
come to an agreement and no issues have resulted in a lawsuit.
Mr. Cordes talked about an issue with a development plan in Lorain County. He said the
developer wants a spot solution and does not want to spend a lot of money, while Lorain
County is looking at a long-term plan. Ms. Gallucci stated that the proposed policy would
look at long-term development plans. Mr. Cordes discussed the need for good land use
management planning.
Mayor Paul Koomar asked if NOACA looks at existing agreements. Ms. Gallucci said yes.
Mayor Koomar asked if NOACA’s process takes into consideration the compact use of water
from Lake Erie and whether it could leave a watershed.
Mr. MacDonald stated that decisions related to the cross divide transfer of water is made by
the Ohio Department of Natural Resources (ODNR). He said NOACA does look to see if
ODNR gives permission, which it did for the Medina County-Wadsworth FPA modification.
Mr. Jordan stated that NOACA would become a third party if it denies an FPA boundary
change because of sprawl and it would put the agency in a precarious position.
Ms. Gallucci stated that staff will review the issue; develop potential criteria and ways the
policy could be structured; and present some information at the next Policy Committee
meeting.
Ms. Gallucci stated that based on the comments made by the Committee, the policy should
be a consideration factor, but it may or may not impact the actual decision, and it should be
the Board’s decision to determine if the impacts are relevant.
Workforce Mobility and Access
Ms. Gallucci stated that staff is looking to take additional steps to better understand how
NOACA can successfully impact the issue of worker accessibility and mobility and implement
a policy or policies to make improvements in Northeast Ohio.
Dr. Ali Makarachi presented information on the following:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

8198c

Geographical hierarchy
Six major job hubs (map)
Current problem definition (workers and employers locations mismatch, transit access,
and environmental justice population)
Auto and transit travel times (maps)
Auto and transit accessibility to available workers (maps)
Current home to work travel (maps)
Comparing current home to work travel with available workers (maps and tables)
Environmental Justice accessibility to job hubs (maps and tables)

1-3

 Mr. Ben Capelle asked how staff decided the numbers to use when calculating the actual
transit time. He also asked how staff scaled the weight time with the travel time.
Dr. Makarachi stated that networks and parameters are entered into the NOACA model,
thousands of scripts are generated, and the model automatically determines the wait time.
He noted that the choice model decides how many people travel by transit or car.
Commissioner John Hamercheck asked if actual numbers are entered into the model to
validate the model and scripts. Dr. Makarachi said yes and noted that he compares the data
from the transit agencies to the data in the model, which matches 99% and noted that it was
not possible to get an exact match.
Ms. Gallucci asked Dr. Makarachi to follow up with Mr. Capelle to ensure that NOACA has
accurate data for Laketran. She noted that NOACA needs to make sure that the model
accounts for new technology that decreases the wait time significantly.
Ms. Gallucci stated that people are traveling across significant boundaries from where they
live to where they work, which places additional burden on the infrastructure. She noted that
if there was just a 1% improvement in the accessibility of jobs, the region would save $20
million a year. She asked the Committee to think about policies NOACA could put in place
that would help people get to work who live near a job hub. She noted that people and
businesses will need help in making better location decisions.
Chief McCall stated that businesses locate to areas that make the most sense for them. She
said some thought should be given to what will happen in the future. She said she heard from
another source that urban areas are becoming the centers for future growth, which is an
interesting dynamic shift happening with populations.
Ms. Infeld commented on how the data presented by Dr. Makarachi reflect what is happing in
the region with respect to poverty, education, and job access.
Ms. Gallucci mentioned that staff is in the process of finalizing a white paper on workforce
mobility and access and will meet with the media to talk more about NOACA’s work.
Ms. Gallucci stated that there are many workers who live within 20 minutes of job centers, but
work elsewhere. She noted that if those workers had jobs where they live, it would put less
stress on the infrastructure. She mentioned that the data could be used to help employers
and workers target each other within a 20-minute zone.
Mr. Freddy Collier talked about building communities around job hubs. He said there needs
to be more conversation around transit-oriented development (TOD) and focus on making
sure GCRTA has what it needs to connect people to jobs. He suggested that NOACA,
GCRTA, and planning and development organizations work together to develop a strategy
that promotes bi-directional transit and place-based community development.
Mayor Annette Blackwell talked about making people aware of all their transportation options;
the need for coordination of all transportation services; the connection between transportation,
quality of life, social issues, and stress related to infant mortality; the need for mortgage
incentive programs so people can buy homes closer to a job center; and the need for more
educational skills. Mayor Blackwell stated that the workforce mobility problem needs to be

8198c

1-4

 addressed holistically. She said she hopes Dr. Makarachi’s work parlays into measurable
outcomes.
Mr. Jeff Brandon stated that banks do not provide small mortgage loans ($50,000 or less)
because it is hard to justify the closing costs. He noted that if people were able to get a home
loan, their mortgage payment could be as low as $300 a month instead of $700-$800 a month
to rent, which would reduce their stress. Mr. Brandon talked about the lack of investments
being made in certain communities.
Councilman Zone stated that the region needs to come together and create development
patterns that provide opportunities for a successful workforce and affordable housing for
individuals.
Councilman Zone stated that a lot of problems with development patterns and sprawl have
happened because jobs have left the center city and some people have been forced to live in
certain communities based on their color and social economic status. He said the underlining
issue is race and suggested that the Board discuss this issue in a real substantial way.
Ms. Gallucci stated that NOACA staff will finalize the work; put together a toolbox so
communities can use the data to improve access and mobility for their residents; share
information with employers so they can better recruit workers; use the data for education and
outreach; and determine how the data could be used in NOACA’s long-range planning to
address outlining issues to improve quality of life.
Old Business
No old business was discussed at this meeting.
New Business
Councilman Zone stated that the City of Cleveland has been working with its partners on the
Vision Zero concept that focuses on making the region safe and providing equitable mobility
for people who traverse through communities. He said he would like to give a presentation
on this topic to the full Board.
Mr. Collier stated that Vision Zero makes sure people interface with traffic, streets and
infrastructure in a safe way. He mentioned that 21st Century is going to introduce new
opportunities and options for transportation. He noted that as the region deals with different
transportation modes and new technology options, opportunities and challenges will be
introduced, as well. Mr. Collier stated that the Vision Zero Task Force has set up several
committees that are looking at ways to address the need for safer streets and reach the goal
of zero traffic fatalities over a number of years.
Adjournment
Commissioner Lennon stated that the next Policy Committee meeting will be held at the
NOACA offices on July 12, 2019 at 10:00 a.m. There being no further business, the meeting
was adjourned at 11:40 a.m.

8198c

1-5

 2019 Attendance Record
Policy Committee
MEETING DATES
Samuel Alai, Mayor, Broadview Heights
(David Schroedel, Alternate)
Annette Blackwell, Mayor, City of Maple Heights
(Toni Jones, Alternate)
Pamela Bobst, Mayor, City of Rocky River
(Paul Koomar, Alternate)
Armond Budish, Cuyahoga County Executive
(Mike Foley, Alternate)
Glenn Coyne, FAICP, Executive Director
Cuyahoga County Planning Commission
(James Sonnhalter, Alternate)
William Friedman, President & CEO
Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority
(Linda Sternheimer, Alternate)
Susan Infeld, Interim Director & Manager,
Special Initiatives, Cuyahoga County Planning
Commission
(James Sonnhalter, Alternate)
David H. Roche, Mayor, Richmond Heights
(Lee Courtney, Alternate)
Robert Stefanik, Mayor, North Royalton
(Thomas Jordan, Alternate)
Michael P. Summers, Mayor, Lakewood
(Joseph J. Beno, Alternate)
Freddy Collier, Director, Cleve City Plan Comm
(Anthony Santora, Alternate)
Valarie McCall, Chief of Communications, Govt.
International Affairs, City of Cleveland
(Frank Jackson, Alternate)
Matt Spronz, Director, Office of Capital Projects,
City of Cleveland
(Robert Switalski, Alternate)
Matt Zone, Councilman, Cleveland
(Anthony Brancatelli, Alternate)
Timothy Lennon, Commissioner
(Shane Hajjar, Alternate)
Ben Capelle, General Manager, Laketran
(Andrea Aaby, Alternate)
John R. Hamercheck – Lake Cty Commissioner
(Daniel J. Gerson, Alternate)
Lori Kokoski, Commissioner, Lorain County
(James Cordes, Alternate)
Matt Lundy – Lorain County Commissioner
(Greg Zilka, Alternate)
Chase Ritenauer
(Dale Vandersommen, Alternate)
Jeff Brandon, Trustee, Montville Township
(Adam Friedrick, Alternate)

1/18/19
4/12/19
CUYAHOGA
X

X

X

X

X

A

A

A

7/12/19

10/11/19

X
A
X

X
A

A

X
A
CITY OF CLEVELAND
X

X

X

X

A

A

X
X
GEAUGA COUNTY
X
LAKE COUNTY

X

X

X

X
X
LORAIN COUNTY
A

A

X

X

A
A
MEDINA COUNTY
X

X

Andrew Conrad, P.E., P.S., County Engineer
(Dave Szabo, Alternate)
X - Member present

X
X
OHIO DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (ODOT)
A - Alternate present

1-7

 Myron Pakush, Deputy Director, ODOT Dist. 12
(Bob Weaver, Alternate)

X

A

Total Members Present

21

21

1-8

  

 

 

 

 

Policy Committee Meeting
April 12, 2019, 10:00 am. it

:30 am.

Member Sign-in Sheet

 

MEMBER

SIGNATURE

 

Samuel Alai Mayor, Broadview Heights
(David Schroedel, Alternate)

 

Annette Blackwell, Mayor, Maple Heights
(Toni Jones, Alternate)

 

Pamela Bobst, Mayor, City of Rocky River
(Paul Koomar, Alternate)


a/ Aw

 

Jeff Brandon Montville Township Trustee
(Adam Friedrick, Alternate)

45473 Mw/

 

Armond Budish, Cuyahoga County Executive
(Mike Foley, Alternate)

.ii UV 1/3/

 

Ben Capelle General Manager, Laketran
(Andrea Aaby, Alternate)

 

Freddy L. Collier, Jr. Director, Cleveland City
Planning Commission
(Anthony Santora, Alternate)



 

Andrew Conrad Medina County Engineer
(David Szabo, Alternate)

 

William D. Friedman President and CEO,
Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Port Authority
(Linda Sternheimer, Alternate)

f)
?l


 

John R. Hamercheck Lake County Commissioner
(Daniel J. Gerson, Alternate)

 

Susan lnfeld, Interim Director Manager, Special
Initiatives, Cuyahoga County Planning Commission
(James Sonnhalter, Alternate)

 

Lori Kokoski Lorain County Commissioner
(James Cordes, Alternate)

9 

 

Timothy Lennon Geauga County Commissioner
(Shane Hajiar, Alternate)



 

Matt Lundy Lorain County Commissioner
(Greg Zilka, Alternate)

427/4

 

 

Valarie J. McCall Chief of Communications,
Government and lnt?l. Affairs, City of Cleveland
(Frank Jackson, Alternate)

 



 

 



 

MEMBER

m/ 

 

ron Pakush_? OD 99 )Deputy Director, District 12
aver Altern

Mfa?/R?

 

?Ghase?Riten?? Mayor, City of Lorain
Wandelsommen Alternate) 

Lawton)

 

David H. Roche, Mayor, City of Richmond Heights
(Lee Courtney, Alternate)

MM 

 

Matthew L. Spronz Director, Office of Capital
Projects, City of Cleveland
(Richard Switalski, Alternate)

 

Robert Stefanik Ma or, North Royalton
,(TFhomas Jordan, teri?tje);

 

Michael PIS-ummers Mayor, City of Lakewood
(Joseph Beno, Alternate)

2M) 



 

Matt Zone, Councilman, City of Cleveland
(Anthony Brancatelli, Alternate)

 

 

['Pkll?tv/ ZAVO

 

 

Agenda Item No. 2

PUBLIC COMMENTS

 

Agenda Item 0. 3

REPORT

 

Agenda Item No. 4

ACTION ITEMS

 

Agenda Item 0. 5

ITEMS

NORTHEAST OHIO AREAWIDE COORDINATING AGENCY
MEMORANDUM
TO:

NOACA Policy Committee

FROM:

Grace Gallucci, Executive Director

DATE:

July 5, 2019

RE:

Complete and Green Streets Policy

ACTION REQUESTED
The Committee is asked to review and discuss a draft proposed Complete and Green Streets Policy.
The draft policy was previously presented to the all of the Subcommittees, as well as their Advisory Councils
and has been updated based on comments received from the members.
BACKGROUND/JUSTIFICATION FOR CURRENT ACTION
On June 9, 2017, the Board of Directors adopted AIM Forward 2040, the long-range transportation plan
developed by NOACA for the regional transportation system. AIM Forward 2040 contains strategies,
approaches and recommendations to be undertaken by NOACA and its regional partners. To best guide
and advance implementation of the plan, specific policies will need to be developed and adopted by the
agency. AIM Forward 2040 policy areas to pursue includes complete and green streets.
Complete Streets are roadways designed to safely and comfortably accommodate all users, including, but
not limited to motorists, cyclists, pedestrians, disabled individuals, transit and school bus riders, Amish
buggies, freight haulers, and emergency responders. All users includes people of all ages and abilities.
Green Streets reflect the transportation policy and design approach that minimizes environmental impact by
focusing on efforts to retain, treat and eliminate runoff at the source using green infrastructure applications.
Green infrastructure helps replicate natural hydrologic functions like storage, detention, infiltration, filtration,
evaporation, transpiration, and uptake by plants, and can improve water quality and reduce runoff volumes.
Complete and Green Streets provide a measurably better transportation system that is more equitable,
balanced and effective, which offers every user of the public right of way safe connected and sustainable
transportation options. Also provides unique and attractive streetscapes that protect and enhance
neighborhood livability and integrate, rather than separate, the built and natural environments.
After presenting the draft policy to the Advisory Councils and Subcommittees, the members requested a more
clear delineation between the requirements for NOACA administered funds and all other funding, as well as
including exceptions to the policy. The policy was updated to reflect these revisions and presented again to
the Transportation Subcommittee, at the June 2019 meeting, where a revision was requested in the
exceptions section.

5-1

 Revise from:
• The project is limited exclusively to resurfacing or other maintenance type activities. In these
cases pavement striping for bike lanes, cross walks, signage or other low-cost bicycle and
pedestrian countermeasures must still be recommended.
To:
• The project is limited exclusively to resurfacing or other maintenance type activities. In these
cases pavement striping for bike lanes, cross walks, signage or other low-cost bicycle and
pedestrian countermeasures should still be recommended.
At the next meeting, the Policy Committee will be engaged in a further discussion of the policy.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no financial impact at this time.
CONCLUSION/NEXT STEPS
Pending Board approval, the policy will be implemented.
GG/ks/8202c
Attachments: Draft Complete and Green Streets Policy

5-2

 Approved:

Policy Number:
Effective:
Responsible Division:
Date:

COMPLETE AND GREEN STREETS POLICY
POLICY:

All projects requesting inclusion to the LRTP and/or TIP will be reviewed against this policy for
opportunities to expand complete and green streets in the NOACA region. All projects requesting
NOACA administered funds shall be required to adhere to this policy and are therefore eligible for
NOACA funding participation to implement complete and green street recommendations. The
complete and green streets policy aims to create a measurably better transportation system that
is more equitable, balanced, and effective and which offers every user of the public right-of-way
safe, connected, and sustainable transportation options. This effort to make the system more
complete and green will take advantage of opportunities presented by necessary reconstruction
and expansion of the system whenever practicable.
The goals of this Complete and Green Streets Policy are:
• Create a comprehensive, integrated, and connected transportation network that supports
sustainable development and provides livable communities.
• Ensure safety, ease of use, and ease of transfer between modes for all users of the
transportation system.
• Restore the natural hydrologic function of the region’s watersheds.
• Provide flexibility for different types of streets, areas, and users.

POLICY STATEMENT:

NOACA has long been a proponent of creating a multimodal, safe, and efficient transportation
system that ensures accessibility to all roadway users. Recognizing the road network is the
largest public space in the region, and the demand for transportation choices and improved
water quality continues to grow, NOACA has established a Complete and Green Streets Policy.
This Complete and Green Streets policy promotes a multimodal transportation system that is
integrated with sustainable green infrastructure. The main objective is to ensure roadways are
designed and built to safely and comfortably accommodate all users of roadways, including
motorists, cyclists, pedestrians, disabled individuals, transit and school bus riders, Amish
buggies, freight haulers, and emergency responders. All users includes people of all ages and
abilities.
This policy establishes the link between the agency’s strategic objectives with its investment
decisions.

1
5-3

 PURPOSE:

The desired outcome of the Complete and Green Streets Policy is to create an equitable,
balanced and sustainable transportation system where every roadway user can travel safely and
comfortably.
NOACA’s vision is to STRENGTHEN regional cohesion, PRESERVE existing infrastructure, and
BUILD a sustainable multi-modal transportation system to SUPPORT economic development and
ENHANCE quality of life in Northeast Ohio. In furtherance of the vision of NOACA, five goals
guide the agency. This policy supports all five goals.

BACKGROUND:

Complete Streets are roadways designed to safely and comfortably accommodate all users,
including, but not limited to motorists, cyclists, pedestrians, disabled individuals, transit and school
bus riders, Amish buggies, freight haulers, and emergency responders. All users includes people
of all ages and abilities.
Green Streets reflect the transportation policy and design approach that minimizes environmental
impact by focusing on efforts to retain, treat and eliminate runoff at the source using green
infrastructure applications. Green infrastructure helps replicate natural hydrologic functions like
storage, detention, infiltration, filtration, evaporation, transpiration, and uptake by plants, and can
improve water quality and reduce runoff volumes. These natural functions are often lost in
transportation projects where impervious road surfaces prevent rain water from soaking into the
ground. Green streets incorporate infiltration, biofiltration, and/or storage and use BMPs to collect,
retain, or detain stormwater runoff while also providing design elements that creates attractive
streetscapes. Green Streets can foster unique and attractive streetscapes that protect and
enhance neighborhood livability and integrate, rather than separate, the built and natural
environments.
Complete and Green Streets create a measurably better transportation system that is more
equitable, balanced, and effective and which offers every user of the public right-of-way safe,
connected, and sustainable transportation options.

REQUIREMENTS:
The design and development of the transportation facility should improve conditions for all users
by:
• Designs shall consider accommodations for all users and be sensitive to the context
of the project setting. Complete and green streets are not a one size fits all; every
project may look different.
• Designing context-appropriate facilities in accordance with available standards and
guidance that best ensures safety and efficient operation for all users. The design of
facilities for bicyclists, pedestrians and transit facilities should follow recognized design
guidelines and standards, such as the American Association of State Highway and
Transportation Officials (AASHTO) Guide for the Development of Bicycle Facilities,
AASHTO’s Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and Streets, the Institute of
Transportation Engineers (ITE) Context Solutions Guide, Americans with Disabilities
Act Accessibility Guidelines, Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) Separated Bike

2
5-4

 •
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•

Lane Design Guide, National Association of Transportation City Officials (NACTO)
Design Guides and other recognized and acceptable design publications.
Safety shall be prioritized equally for all modes. Safety improvements for any one
mode will not be minimized to achieve improved level of service for any one mode.
Projects should be coordinated with adjacent jurisdictions to ensure consistency of
facilities
Every project shall include the transit agency (if applicable) in the project development
process to ensure that sufficient accommodation of transit vehicles and access to
transit facilities is provided
Sponsors must demonstrate how the project advances multimodal connectivity and
access to adjacent land uses and destinations within the corridor.
The project sponsor must anticipate likely future demand for all modes and not
preclude the provision of future improvements.
The project sponsor should consider short, medium and long range complete and
green designs.
Design criteria shall be based on the thoughtful application of engineering,
architectural and urban design principles such that all projects shall make the Region
a more appealing, enjoyable, and sustainable place in which to live and work.
Street trees are a critical component of public infrastructure, and shall be considered
for all projects. Priority shall be given to native species, and must be appropriate for
the site.
Foster communication and coordination to encourage consideration of watershed
health and improved water quality through use of green infrastructure applications
Coordinate programs and projects to implement Green Streets as an integrated aspect
of road right-of-way infrastructure, and where feasible, maintenance-level or
rehabilitation projects
Consider implementing programs and projects in a systematic manner to maximize
water quality benefits through a prioritized infrastructure plan within the Metropolitan
Planning Area
Strive to develop new and innovative means to cost-effectively construct and maintain
new green street facilities
Consider the following during project scoping: vegetated swales, rain gardens,
retention areas, constructed wetlands, permeable pavers, tree wells and planters, revegetation/rehabilitation efforts and other best management practices. Resources to
consult include: EPA’s Managing Wet Weather with Green Infrastructure Municipal
Handbook, NOACA’s Clean Water 208 Water Quality Management Plan for Northeast
Ohio and local green streets policies.
If vegetation is included in project design, priority should be given to native and siteadaptive species.

Exceptions:

Sponsors are required to consider bicycles, pedestrians and transit access improvements in the
planning and design of their proposed project as well as green infrastructure. In particular,
incorporate infiltration, biofiltration, and/or storage to collect, retain, or detain stormwater runoff
as well as sidewalks, bike facilities, street crossings (including over- and under-crossings),
pedestrian signals, signs, street furniture, transit stops and facilities, and all connecting pathways
should be designed, constructed, operated and maintained so that all modes and pedestrians,
including people with disabilities, can travel safely and independently. The project may not
warrant consideration if one or more of the following conditions are met:
3
5-5

 •
•
•

•
•

The project is limited exclusively to resurfacing or other maintenance type activities.
In these cases pavement striping for bike lanes, cross walks, signage or other lowcost bicycle and pedestrian countermeasures should still be recommended.
Bicyclists and pedestrians are prohibited by law from using the transportation corridor.
In this instance, a greater effort may be necessary to accommodate bicyclists and
pedestrians as an alternate to the transportation corridor.
The cost of establishing bikeways or walkways that meet applicable standards would
exceed 20% of the cost of the larger transportation project. This percentage is not a
target for expenditure; it is a benchmark for assessing when provision of bicycle or
pedestrian facilities is too costly for consideration.
There are extreme topographic or natural resource constraints.
The project is located on a low-volume roadway (ADT is less than 1000) that is not
projected to carry significant bicycle or pedestrian usage, or that does not carry or
provide access to fixed route transit service.

Implementation:

Upon approval and adoption of this Complete Streets Policy, it will become part of NOACA’s
planning process and the scoring process for NOACA-attributable funding project selection. The
principles of this policy will also guide NOACA staff in the preparation of the Long Range
Transportation Plan and other plans it prepares or to which it contributes. Policy guidance and
resources will be posted on the NOACA website to assist project sponsors in developing
Complete and Green Streets projects. This guidance will contain model policies, sample design
standards, and information on other resources.

4
5-6

 NORTHEAST OHIO AREAWIDE COORDINATING AGENCY
MEMORANDUM
TO:

NOACA Policy Committee

FROM:

Grace Gallucci, Executive Director

DATE:

July 5, 2019

RE:

NOACA’s Water Quality Management Plan (208 Plan) Policy to Consider
Development Impact of Proposed Wastewater Facility Planning Area (FPA)
Modifications

ACTION REQUESTED
No action is requested at this time. This item is for information and discussion only.
BACKGROUND/INFORMATION
At its January 2019 meeting the Committee adopted focus areas for calendar year 2019.
One of those focus areas was to evaluate the potential inclusion of criteria that would
address FPA boundary changes requested for the purpose of new housing or commercial
developments.
The review and approval of wastewater FPA modification requests is a primary 208 Plan
maintenance task. The NOACA Board must approve all FPA modifications to either boundaries
or prescriptions. Since 2000, the NOACA Board has approved 60 modifications to the region’s
FPA boundaries and prescriptions.
NOACA’s 208 Plan contains policies that govern FPA modifications. NOACA staff conduct a
consistency review of every FPA modification request to ensure the proposed change adheres
to these policies.
The current 208 Plan is undergoing a comprehensive update, including policies relevant to staff
review of FPA modification requests. To further inform the content of the new 208 Plan, two
questionnaires were developed to gather stakeholder input: The wastewater decision makers
questionnaire (distributed in May) and the “208 Public” questionnaire (distributed in June). The
wastewater decision maker questionnaire included the following question about potential
consideration of urban sprawl and development impacts in NOACA’s review of FPA modification
requests:
Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? During NOACA staff
review of proposed Facility Planning Area (FPA) modifications, staff should
examine whether a proposed modification is primarily driven by new development
and whether that new development would further expand the development
footprint (i.e., increase urban sprawl) in Northeast Ohio.

5-7

 Preliminary results from the questionnaire show only 18% negative response versus 82%
nonnegative response to the above statement. Furthermore, there are Northeast Ohio examples
of communities that utilize 208 Plan efforts to influence land use development patterns,
particularly Geauga County and Wayne County.
The Water Quality Subcommittee (WQS) had many comments regarding this item at its June 21
meeting. In summary, WQS members felt NOACA staff should:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Adopt an asset management approach to sewer infrastructure, considering one of the
five NOACA vision goals to “preserve existing infrastructure.”
Generate smart decisions for development
Consider excess capacity at many existing treatment facilities before additional sewer
infrastructure capacity.
Seek more information on the downstream impacts to communities
Consider all costs of infrastructure investment, particularly the long-term costs required
long after the developer’s involvement in the project.
Confirm the legality of considering infrastructure sprawl, particularly with the Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency (Ohio EPA).
Investigate how other planning agencies have addressed or intend to address this issue.

WQS input, along with results from the wastewater decision maker questionnaire, will inform
members of the Policy Committee about next steps to consider an urban sprawl and
development impacts policy in NOACA’s 208 Plan.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
None
CONCLUSION/NEXT STEPS
Staff will use Committee input to further develop the 208 Plan’s FPA modification policies.
GG/jm/ks/8200c

5-8

 NORTHEAST OHIO AREAWIDE COORDINATING AGENCY
MEMORANDUM
TO:

NOACA Policy Committee

FROM:

Grace Gallucci, Executive Director

DATE:

July 5, 2019

RE:

Transportation for Livable Communities Initiative (TLCI) Program Update

ACTION REQUESTED
No action is requested at this time. This item is for information and presentation only.
BACKGROUND/JUSTIFICATION
NOACA's Transportation for Livable Communities Initiative (TLCI) provides assistance to communities for
integrated transportation and land use planning and projects that strengthen community livability. TLCI
advances the goals of NOACA’s Regional Strategic Plan by:
•
•
•
•
•
•

Developing transportation projects that provide more travel options through complete streets and
context sensitive solutions, increasing user safety and supporting positive public health impacts
Promoting reinvestment in underutilized or vacant/abandoned properties through development
concepts supported by multimodal transportation systems
Supporting economic development through place-based transportation and land use
recommendations, and connect these proposals with existing assets and investments
Ensuring that the benefits and burdens of growth, change and transportation projects are distributed
equitably by integrating accessibility and environmental justice into projects
Enhancing regional cohesion by supporting collaboration between regional and community partners
Provide people with safe and reliable transportation choices that enhance their quality of life

The TLCI Program has two components: The TLCI Planning Studies Program and the TLCI Implementation
Program. The TLCI Planning Studies Program assists communities to develop transportation planning studies
that facilitate and promote sustainable development, multimodal transportation, and complete and green
streets. The TLCI Implementation Program provides funding assistance for communities to implement priority
projects identified in TLCI or TLCI-like community developed plans.
An overview on NOACA’s Transportation for Livable Communities Initiative (TLCI) Program was provided to
the Citizens Advisory Council (CAC) at their September 28, 2018 meeting. Council members inquired about
the TLCI application process and discussed opportunities for improvement. Specifically, the CAC expressed
concerns regarding program coordination with impacted community groups and the public. An additional
special meeting of CAC members was conducted in February 2019 to address the concerns raised. As a
result, NOACA staff have identified opportunities for improvement to the TLCI program regarding public
5-9

 outreach, application solicitation and process, sponsor coordination and project programming. Staff will
present these opportunities to the Committee at its July 12, 2019 meeting for input to inform potential policy
and process related improvements.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no financial impact.
CONCLUSION/NEXT STEPS
TLCI program policy and process documents will be updated to incorporate necessary revisions.
GG/rl/8024c

5 - 10

 Agenda Item 0. 6

OLD BUSINESS

Agenda Item 0. 7

NEW BUSINESS

Agenda Item 0. 8

ADJOURN

