BOARD OF TRUSTEES
The MetroHealth System
Date:

October 24, 2018

Time:

8:00 a.m.

Place:

The MetroHealth System Board Room

Present:

Ms. Anderson, Ms. Dee (via phone), Mr. Hurwitz, Mr. McDonald, Mr. Monnolly, Mr. Moss,
Dr. Silvers, Ms. Whiting

Staff:

Dr. Boutros, Ms. Allen, Mr. Botros, Dr. Boulanger, Ms. Brown, Dr. Chehade, Ms. Hannu,
Mr. Phillips, Ms. Platten, Mr. Richmond, Mr. Stern, Ms. Wahl, Dr. Watts, Dr. Werner

Guests:

Mr. Brian M. O’Neill, Chair, Board of Directors, The MetroHealth Foundation;
Dr. Patricia Thomas, Vice Dean of Medical Education, Case Western Reserve University
School of Medicine

MINUTES OF MEETING
The meeting was called to order by Mr. McDonald at 8:05 a.m. Mr. McDonald noted that there were only
five Trustees present in person and that Mr. Monnolly had just joined via telephone. Mr. Monnolly
indicated that he would join the meeting in person but would participate via telephone until he arrived at
the Board Room.
(The minutes are written in a format conforming to the printed meeting agenda for the convenience of
correlation, recognizing that some of the items were discussed out of sequence.)
1.

Minutes
The Board approved the Minutes of the Regular Meeting of September 26, 2018.
RESOLUTION 19233.

2.

Consent Agenda
A.

Audit and Compliance Committee – No Meeting

B.

Community Engagement Committee – None

C.

Diversity Committee – No Meeting

D.

Executive Committee – No Meeting

E.

Facilities and Space Committee – No Meeting

F.

Finance Committee
1. The Board unanimously approved an increase to the amount of capital funds for
2018 from $20 million to $25 million to be funded from 2018 operating cash flow for
the ongoing operations of MetroHealth. RESOLUTION 19234.
2. The Board unanimously approved the purchase of certain capital equipment as listed
in Exhibit A, for costs not to exceed the amounts shown, to be paid out of available
capital funds. RESOLUTION 19235.

 3. The Board unanimously approved certain annual purchasing policies and procedures,
for participation in group/joint procurement arrangements for the calendar year
2018, for acquisition supplies, equipment, and services routinely used in the
operations of the System. The System may pay group purchasing organizations
(GPO) and joint purchasing programs (JPP) participation or membership fees and
costs, if any out of general operating funds. RESOLUTION 19236.
4. The Board unanimously approved a lease for space at a health center location as
more fully described in Attachment A. RESOLUTION 19237.

3.

G.

Legal and Government Relations Committee - No Meeting

H.

Nominating Committee – No Meeting

I.

Patient Experience Committee – No Meeting

J.

Quality and Safety Committee – No Meeting

President and CEO’s Report
Dr. Boutros indicated his report was in the Board Book and that he had nothing more to add.

4.

Nursing/Magnet Report – Melissa Kline, Chief Nursing Officer
Ms. Theresa Hannu reported in Ms. Kline’s absence and stated that approximately 40 nurses
attended the second minority nurse recruiting event that was held with a third event to be held in
December; two offers of employment to nurses were accepted and another seven additional
nurses are in recruitment phases of receiving offers. Kelly Seabold, Magnet Program Manager,
was named as one of Northeast Ohio’s top young professionals and selected as
one of
Crain’s
2018 Forty Under 40 and will be profiled in the 19th Edition
of next month.
Crain’s
Dr. Boutros added that Kelly Seabold’s announcement was in his President’s Report, as well as
Michael Dalton, Director of State Government Relations, was selected
by Healthcare
as
Modern
one of only 15 “Up and Comers” in healthcare.

5.

Medical Staff
A.

Report of Medical Staff President – Dr. Sandra Werner
At the request of Dr. Werner, Mr. McDonald made a motion and the Board unanimously
approved the Medical Staff Appointments, Actions, and Reappointments for October
2018, as well as the Medical Executive Committee Minutes of September 14, 2018.
Dr. Werner continued her report by recognizing notable events by staff members:
Dr. Heather Vallier, Chief of Orthopaedic Research, was elected 2nd President Elect to
the Board of Directors of the Orthopaedic Trauma Association; Dr. Richard Wilson,
Director of the Division of Neurorehabilitation and Director of Stroke Rehabilitation, was
awarded a five-year $3.3 million grant from the National Institute of Health to study the
effectiveness of peripheral nerve stimulation for the treatment of subacromial
impingement syndrome for shoulder impingement; Dr. Kenneth Laurita, bioscientific staff
in the Heart and Vascular Center, and Dr. Lance Wilson, attending physician in the
Department of Emergency Medicine, were awarded a $600,000 NIH grant to improve
cardiac outcomes during resuscitation from sudden cardiac arrest; Dr. David Kaelber,
Chief Medical Informatics Officer, was appointed to the American Academy of Pediatrics’
Child Health Informatics Center Project Advisory Committee; and Dr. Terry Stancin, Chief
of Psychology and Director of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry and Psychology, has been
named one of six finalists for the 2018 National Compassionate Caregiver of the Year
Award.
2

 B.

Approval of Medical Staff Providers Appointments, Actions and Reappointments
– October 2018
1. The Board unanimously approved the Medical Staff Providers Appointments, Actions,
and Reappointments for October 2018. RESOLUTION 19238.

C.

Medical Executive Committee Minutes – September 14, 2018

D.

Report of Case Western Reserve University (CWRU), School of Medicine –
Dr. Patricia Thomas
Dr. Thomas updated the Board on two brief announcements: Dean Pamela B. Davis, MD
PhD, gave her State of the School Address on October 23, 2018, and it is available online
for those individuals interested in reviewing the School of Medicine’s accomplishments
over the last year; and the week of October 15, 2018, the School of Medicine received
the final decision letter from the LCME, CWRU’s School of Medicine accreditation agency,
indicating they are fully in compliance with all of the standards and the next cycle is
scheduled for 2025.

6.

Audit Committee – No Meeting

7.

Community Engagement Committee – Cancelled
A.

Report of Committee Chairperson McDonald
Mr. McDonald reported for verification that the Board of Trustees Community
Engagement Committee meeting was cancelled due to no Board quorum present;
however, the community discussion continued.
Ms. Allen stated that 10 members of the community attended and recalled that last year
was the first year the Community Engagement Committee met and established the five
priority areas for engaging in community health. This year was spent on tracking the
progress of those five priorities and she reviewed with the Board briefly what was
discussed. Dr. Nabil Chehade updated the group on the social determinants of health
initiative and the progress on the opioid epidemic. Tina Arundel is the co-producer and
voice over for MetroHealth’s first podcast involving seven episodes in which 3,400 people
listened with an average of 90% of the people watching all seven episodes. A pilot
program called Mos Vida, a program involving nutrition and cooking, was created to
assist in eliminating disparities and chronic diseases; preliminary results of hemoglobin
A1C before and after for participant #1 began with an A1C of 15.8 and was reduced to
6.7 with the assistance of the Mos Vida program in the span of three months’ time. A
Good Neighbor Program was created to address Community Building in the Clark Fulton
area; this involves people from MetroHealth walking the streets and talking to individuals
living in the neighborhood to show that MetroHealth cares about the health, beauty and
cleanliness of the neighborhood, such as the painting of fire hydrants the beginning of
October. Rev. Tony Minor provided an update on Community Trauma; significant
progress has been made in building relationships between people in the community and
churches, and the demand for gun locks has been such a success that MetroHealth’s
Public Safety personnel will participate at most community events. MetroHealth received
a grant from First Year Cleveland which enabled hiring of a part-time program manager
and two part-time loss trainers (persons who have experienced infant mortality
themselves) as counseling people concerning sleep related deaths. Sleep related deaths
in Cuyahoga County in 2015 was 27 and in 2017 was 13; the campaign Safe Sleep seems
to be helping, noting that the newest piece of the campaign is that every baby born at
MetroHealth and other organizations receive a Onesie both in English and in Spanish
3

 states on the back Turn Me Over and the front in print provides the Safe Sleep
instructions.
B.

Non-Consent Agenda
1. Action Item - None
2. Information Items
a. Progress Update on Five Priority Areas Identified in Community Health Needs
Assessment
b. Presentation on Infant Mortality
c. 2019 Shared Community Health Needs Assessment
d. Social Determinants of Health Initiative

8.

Diversity and Inclusion Committee – No Meeting

9.

Executive Committee – No Meeting

10.

Facilities and Space Committee – No Meeting

11.

Finance Committee – No Meeting
A.

Report of Committee Chairperson Silvers
Mr. McDonald chaired the meeting of the Finance Committee in Dr. Silvers’ absence and
requested Mr. Richmond to report on his behalf.
Mr. Richmond stated that the Management Discussion and Analysis concerning the
financial results through September 30, 2018, were contained in the meeting materials
and contained pertinent information reviewed at the Finance Committee meeting.
Operating Performance for nine months ended September 30 was $76.1 million,
indicating a 16.2% increase over the prior year or approximately 6% over Target; the
increased Operating Performance was due to Emergency Department volumes, the
patient acuity, surgical volumes, and the Care Innovation and Community Improvement
Program (CICIP) or what is more commonly known as the “physician upper payment limit
program”. Operating Income for the nine months ended September 30 was $32.3
million, approximately 31% over the prior year and a 15% increase over Target. Adam
Blake, Senior Managing Director of Hartland, attended the meeting as the System’s
Investment Advisor after the Investment Committee of the Board convened and
approved the investment approach and strategy on July 21, 2018, based upon the
Investment Policy that was approved by Cuyahoga County also in July 2018. Mr. Stern
and Dr. Boulanger provided an update on volumes and Geoff Himes, VP of Finance,
provided an update on some of the Accounting Pronouncements and Standards changes.
Mr. Richmond stated there will be further accounting changes in years to come; GASB 75
is the change for 2018 having to do with treatment of post-employment benefits, noting
that this is an accounting liability and not any legal liability and these accounting changes
do not have any impact on the bond covenants. In looking at the Finance package, the
Unrestricted Cash and Investments has increased from year end by approximately $30
million due to timing and due to the $5 million of shared savings received from the ACO,
the CICIP Program and Operating Performance, with an all-time high of approximately
$430 million as of September 30, 2018. Lastly, the meeting entered Executive Session to
discuss the 2019 Annual Budget and Mr. Richmond indicated that on October 30 a
second investor disclosure update call will be held concerning MetroHealth’s Continuing
Disclosure Agreement relating to the bond issuance.
Dr. Boutros reviewed with the Board that MetroHealth has seen a steady increase in the
last five or six years in the number of unique patients from 180,000 to 300,000. He
indicated that MetroHealth has reached the theoretical limit of unique patients with two
other large health care systems in Cuyahoga County. The focus moving forward will be
4

 on how to provide more services to the existing patients and the additional access to
patients MetroHealth will have within the other eight counties due to the passage of the
State of Ohio House Bill 111. He also called attention to Page 3 of the Management
Discussion and Analysis of Unaudited Financial Condition and Results of Operations for
the Period Ended September 30, 2018, which explains the rules of the Government
Accounting Standards Board (GASB) as it relates to the Net Position of MetroHealth,
noting the Net Position on Table 1 on Page 5 on December 31, 2016, was $437 million
compared to September 30, 2018, being $512 million.
B.

Non-Consent Agenda
1. Action Items
a. Approval of 2019 Annual Budget (Executive Session)
2. Information Items
a. Third Quarter 2018 Investment Performance
b. Third Quarter 2018 Financial Results
c. Third Quarter 2018 Operating Performance Volumes
d. Accounting Pronouncements and Standards Update

12.

Legal and Government Relations Committee – No Meeting

13.

Nominating Committee – No Meeting

14.

Patient Experience Committee – No Meeting

15.

Quality and Safety Committee – No Meeting

16.

External Affairs Report – Elizabeth Allen, Senior Vice President, External Affairs
Ms. Allen began her report by indicating that MetroHealth has reached over 10,000 fans on
Facebook, noting that a new Social Media Manager from Fox 8 was hired and assisted
MetroHealth with its success. At the request of several physicians, MetroHealth held a voter
registration drive at four different MetroHealth facilities and registered over 2,000 employees and
visitors during the allotted time. A community empowerment event was held at the Buckeye
Health Center providing health screenings, gun locks, and two dozen local agencies representing
job opportunities and healthy eating.

17.

Foundation and System Philanthropy Report – Kate Brown – President, The
MetroHealth Foundation and MHS Chief Development Officer
Ms. Brown began her report by thanking all present who participated in the GALA event on
October 6, 2018; she stated this outstanding event executed by the External Affairs term raised
nearly $1.2 million for the Campus Transformation. The MetroHealth Foundation has been
communicating with Falls Communications concerning refining MetroHealth’s message as the
Campus Transformation campaign is gaining momentum.
Mr. O’Neill, Chair of The MetroHealth Foundation, stated shortly after the GALA MetroHealth was
awarded $1 million competitive grant from a major corporate donor in Cleveland and expects a
public announcement to follow with the details and formalities being completed. He reported this
as a classic example of teamwork between The MetroHealth System leadership, members of the
Campaign Cabinet, The MetroHealth Foundation, and Ms. Brown’s Development team. Mr.
O’Neill mentioned that reaching the commitment goal of 100% participation of The MetroHealth
Foundation 45 Member Board should be completed in the next few weeks. Lastly, he wanted to
thank previous Foundation Board Chairs Rob Durham and Collin Knisely for soliciting donations
from former Foundation Board Chairs that led to commitments totaling $200,000.

5

 18.

Other Board Items - None

A motion was unanimously passed by roll call vote to go into Executive Session to discuss trade secrets
and matters required to be kept confidential by law.
Following the Executive Session, the meeting reconvened in open session at approximately 9:40 a.m.
A motion was made to consider the proposed Budget for 2019 and following further discussion, the Board
unanimously approved the proposed budget for the 2019 fiscal year and authorized the submission of the
same to the government of Cuyahoga County, Ohio. RESOLUTION 19239.
The meeting adjourned at approximately 9:45 a.m.
NEXT MEETING:

November 28, 2018 (WEDNESDAY) – 8:00 a.m.
The MetroHealth System
Respectfully submitted,

Thomas McDonald, Chairperson

Akram Boutros, M.D., FACHE
President and Chief Executive Officer

6

 