Summit County Opiate Task Force
Key Stakeholders Annual Meeting

Summit County Public Health Auditorium
1867 W. Market Street, Suite A, Akron, OH 44313

MEETING NOTES 6/14/2017
ATTENDEES:
89 Community Stakeholders were in attendance.
MEETING MATERIALS:
The following meeting materials were distributed: Agenda, Meeting Notes from March 8, 2017, Data
Dashboard Handouts, Jake’s Reach Meeting schedule, Akron Say No to Dope, Inc. – New Beginnings
Boutique flyer and Thrift and Ride for Recovery flyer, and Addiction Resource Guide.
WELCOME AND INTRODUCTIONS:
Jerry Craig, Executive Director of the County of Summit ADM Board welcomed all participants and
outlined the agenda.
Detox Program Presentation:
Mr. Craig indicated that the County of Summit ADM Board budgeted an additional $3.2 million in 2017
to expand detoxification, QRT and recovery coaching services. Tammy Jensen, Program Manager at
the ADM Crisis Center gave an overview of detoxification services including eligibility criteria. Ms.
Jensen noted that eight additional detox beds became available on May 21, 2017 (for a total of 28
beds) with a zero to three day wait for services. If a bed is open, services can be accessed by Summit
County residents on the same day. In cases where the individual is not ready, they are asked to come
back another day. Most admissions take place between 8:00 am and 5:00 pm. There are 19 male beds
and a separate 9 bed female unit; however three dorm beds can swing to be a female unit, when
needed. Detox patients meet with a Recovery Coach once admitted.
Committee Reports: Mr. Craig introduced Dr. Garry Thrasher, Chair of the Healthcare subcommittee.
•

Healthcare: Dr. Thrasher indicated it is a goal of the Healthcare committee to provide an
educational aspect to healthcare providers whenever possible. It was reiterated that
there are 28 Detox beds, which makes this one of the largest in the state. Most of the
time there is no wait list and they are trying to decrease no shows and offer immediate
detox to those individuals.
o It was also noted that the ADM Detox is a teaching site for 4th year students at
NEOMED. The group is working on setting curriculum for Family Practice at Akron
General and will participate in Grand Rounds.
o Work continues with local pharmacies to help their customers safely store
controlled drugs such as opiates. The committee is also working with the jail to
help pregnant inmates who are detoxing.

Mission: The Summit County Opiate Task Force is a group of key individuals and organizations committed to
reducing the tragic consequences of opiate abuse in Summit County through education, collaboration, and the wise
use of available resources.

 Discussion followed regarding the average length of stay for detox services. Dr. Thrasher
mentioned that the Fentanyl has caused the length of stay to go up and work continues
on providing interim sober housing.
•

Criminal Justice: Jack Davis, City of Cuyahoga Falls Chief of Police, reported that the
Criminal Justice subcommittee has been working with the Sherriff’s Office to provide jail
treatment programs at the Summit County Jail. Many hurdles will need to be overcome.
Chief Davis also noted that Quick Response Teams (QRT) are going well and they are
finding ways to share information within different cities in Summit County. At the last
committee meeting, John Ellis from the University of Akron spoke about possible
research endeavors. Discussion followed regarding the availability of Narcan and
suggested remedies for helping those who overdose.

•

Public Awareness: Darryl Brake, Executive Director of Community Partnership of Summit
County and chair of the Public Awareness committee, said the committee has been very
active.
On April 12th there was an all-day event with Sam Quinones, author of Dreamland, The
True Tale of America’s Opiate Epidemic. The day started with a program entitled Leaders
in the Community Making a Difference with physicians at Summa, he then visited Green
High school for an interview, was the guest speaker at the Akron Roundtable meeting,
and then presented at a question and answer session and book signing at the AkronSummit County Public Library’s Main Library in the evening.
On the evening of May 9th, there was a Generation Found screening at the Akron-Summit
County Public Library’s Main library with a musical performance by Matt Butler.

•

Youth: (Young People in Recovery)
Beth Kuckuck, Children’s Program Coordinator at the ADM Board and the OTF Youth cochair, indicated the subcommittee is focusing on three key areas:
o In-school supports - assisting schools to better support and encourage youth
struggling with addiction or those in recovery;
o Community supports - connecting with other community entities to develop
sober after school and weekend activities;
o Looking into the feasibility of developing sober high school for Summit County.
The group is also working hard on recruiting youth to serve on this committee.

•

Families: Michael Cohen, chair of the Families subcommittee, highlighted three of the
Jake’s Reach events, including their first meeting which occurred on April 22nd in Ellet.
The second event took place in May in Kenmore with approximately 125 people in
attendance. Mobile D.A.W.N clinics were present and two families reported back that
Narcan was used to save two lives. The third event is scheduled for June 7th from 6:008:00 pm at Forest Hill CLC. Jake’s Reach was founded by Frank Marr, a resident of Ellet
after the overdose death of his grandson. Handouts listing additional Jake’s Reach
meeting dates were made available to everyone.

Mission: The Summit County Opiate Task Force is a group of key individuals and organizations committed to
reducing the tragic consequences of opiate abuse in Summit County through education, collaboration, and the wise
use of available resources.

 It was also noted that Jerry Craig, Shelly and Travis Bornstein and Mike Cohen will be
attending the OACBHA Ohio’s 2017 Opiate Conference in Columbus on June 12th and 13th.
They will be talking about how addiction affects families.
•

Policy & Advocacy: Greg McNeil reported that the committee has been focusing on
identifying proven strategic initiatives and advocating for their adoption. They are
currently focusing on treatment initiatives, specialized court dockets, educational
programs, peer and recovery activities, Quick Response Teams, and recovery and
transitional housing.
Mairin Mancino, co-chair of the Policy-Advocacy committee indicated that the group met
on June 2nd and discussed the senate budget, which is being finalized by the Senate
Finance Committee at the end of June. It is a goal of the committee to develop a plan to
engage philanthropic, business and legislative support of funding or rules that support
our community. In that effort, Mike Cohen went to Columbus to provide testimony about
the importance of Medicaid coverage in terms of access of treatment and services. The
committee is working on making assignments to call key state senators in hopes that
they can influence the floor vote on the June 21st.

DATA DASHBOARD: Eric Hutzell, Research and Quality Improvement Coordinator for the County of
Summit ADM Board presented a graphic entitled “Finding Patterns Among Recent Opioid Related
Overdoses in Barberton, Ohio”. The map, based on Narcan usage back to 2015, demonstrates the
collaboration and willingness to work together in our communities. Vince Morber, Chief of Barberton
Police Department, indicated the map will be used with the ultimate goal of making better choices
for our community.
Eric Hutzell presented the findings of the June 7, 2017 Data Dashboard.
• Emergency department visits indicate there were 247 drug overdoses in April 2017 and 232
overdoes in May 2017 compared to 103 and 101 respectively in 2016.
• Preliminary data suggests that there were 37 drug overdose deaths from January 1 – May 30,
2017. The official count for total drug overdose deaths that occurred in Summit County in
2016, as of May 30, 2017 is 312. This is not a final count.
• Detox wait times for Q1 2017 show there was an 8 day wait time for females and 6 day wait
time for males.
• Residential wait times for Q1 2017 show a 29 day wait time for males and 30 day wait time for
females.
• There have been 50 DAWN kits dispensed so far in 2017, including those from Edwin Shaw.
• QRT is now in 65% of towns with a population of 10,000 or over.
GENERAL ANNOUNCMENTS & UPCOMING EVENTS:
• Akron Say No to Dope will be having a Narcan training once per month. June 20th is the next
training date. There will also be a Ride for Recovery on June 10th in memory of Sheena
Moore. Opiate Task Force members were encouraged to shop at New Beginnings Boutique
and thrift shop. Akron Say No to Dope opened the shop with the goal of raising enough

Mission: The Summit County Opiate Task Force is a group of key individuals and organizations committed to
reducing the tragic consequences of opiate abuse in Summit County through education, collaboration, and the wise
use of available resources.

 •

money to open and sustain transitional/sober living houses in our area. Handouts with details
were distributed by Akron Say No to Dope.
Lucky Tisch, Communications and Community Outreach Coordinator with the County of
Summit ADM Board, announced there would be a Norton Police Fighting Addiction event on
June 22nd from 12:00-5:00 pm at Norton High School. She also asked that she can be
contacted at (tischl@admboard.org or 330-762-3500) if there are any events or groups that
need a speaker.

Committee Schedules:
• Healthcare Committee - TBD
• Criminal Justice - July 25 from 2:30-4:00 pm at 650 Dan Street, Conference Room A/B
• Public Awareness- TBD
• Young People in Recovery – July 10th – 4:00-5:30 pm
• Families - TBD
• Policy & Advocacy Committee - June 14th – 3:00 pm Location TBD
• Speakers’ Bureau Training – Please contact Lucky Tisch at 330-564-4057 to be registered for the
next training at the ADM Board offices (1867 W. Market Street, Suite B2, Akron).
NEXT MEETING:
Wednesday, September 13, 2017 at 4:00 pm, in the Summit County Public Health Auditorium (1867 W.
Market St., Akron 44313)

Mission: The Summit County Opiate Task Force is a group of key individuals and organizations committed to
reducing the tragic consequences of opiate abuse in Summit County through education, collaboration, and the wise
use of available resources.

 