ALCOHOL, DRUG ADDICTION AND MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES BOARD OF CUYAHOGA COUNTY
COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE MEETING MINUTES
NOVEMBER 14, 2018
PRESENT: Rev. Benjamin F. Gohlstin, Sr., Gregory X. Boehm, M.D., Erskine Cade, MBA, Elsie Caraballo, J. Robert
Fowler, Ph.D., Cassi Handler, Katie Kern-Pilch, MA, ATR-BC, Steve Killpack, MS, Eugenia Kirkland, LSW, MSSA, CDCA,
Max M. Rodas, MA, Harvey A. Snider, Esq.
ABSENT: Reginald C. Blue, Ph.D., Gwendolyn Howard, LSW, MSSA, Sharon Rosenbaum, MBA, Hugh B. Shannon,
Mary M. Step, Ph.D.
BOARD STAFF PRESENT: Scott Osiecki, CEO, Carole Ballard, Tonya Birney, Cheryl Fratalonie, Tami Fischer, Bob
Garrity, Felicia Harrison, Esther Hazlett, Carol Krajewski, Starlette Sizemore-Rice, Maggie Tolbert, Linda Torbert, Beth
Zietlow-DeJesus
1. CALL TO ORDER
Board Chair, Rev. Gohlstin, called the meeting to order at 4:00 p.m. and reported that he recently attended the Medical
Marijuana Symposium in Columbus. After hearing several presentations, he noted that the Board of Directors may wish to
develop its position on this issue.
2. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
The minutes from the 9/05/18 Community Relations & Advocacy Committee meeting and the 10/17/18 Committee of the
Whole Meeting were approved as submitted.
3. ADVOCACY ACTION AGENDA
 2018 Review - Beth Zietlow-DeJesus, Director of External Affairs, highlighted the 2018 Advocacy Action Agenda
Review document that listed progress made; twelve of the thirteen goals were completed and are on-going.


2019 Draft – The proposed goals for 2019 Advocacy Action Agenda were reviewed. New goals were introduced
and identified on the draft. Discussion followed; one addition was suggested: “to seek new funding from a variety
of sources”.

Motion to recommend approval of the CY2019 Advocacy Action Agenda with the recommended revision to the full
Board. MOTION: E. Kirkland / SECOND: E. Caraballo / AYES: G. Boehm, E. Cade, E. Caraballo, R. Fowler, B. Gohlstin,
C. Handler, K. Kern-Pilch, S. Killpack, E. Kirkland, M. Rodas, H. Snider / NAYS: None / ABSTAIN: None / Motion passed.
4. FENTANYL CAMPAIGN
Ms. Zietlow-DeJesus reported that fentanyl is resulting in many overdose deaths including recreational use of cocaine. She
shared statistics from the time period of 2016 to mid-year 2018. During this time, there have been 215 fentanyl overdose
deaths in the African American community and 95 of those included cocaine. Of these deaths, 104 individuals were from
Cleveland and the most common suburbs being Euclid, East Cleveland and Cleveland Heights. The majority of these deaths
were male; 154 male and 61 were female. Four individuals were 18 years of age and under, 18 were 18-29 years, and 47
were 30-44 years, 87 were 45-60 years and 59 were over the age of 60.
The ADAMHS Board is working with the County Executive’s Office to get additional fentanyl test strips into the community
particularly for recreational users. This County Executive’s Office intends to provide $15,000.00 for this effort. The strategy
is to get the test strips in the Project Dawn kits at MetroHealth, at community mental health centers where Care Alliance
has offered to distribute them, and by the City of Cleveland. The third component of this campaign is to provide information
to the community about the dangers of and rise of fentanyl in cocaine through public awareness, community engagement
and grassroots distribution of information.
Ms. Kirkland suggested having test strips available at community recreation centers to reach young people under 18 years
of age. Ms. Zietlow-DeJesus was receptive to this suggestion and will pass it along.
1

 Committee of the Whole Minutes

November 14, 2018

5. FINANCE REPORTS
Felicia Harrison, Chief Financial Officer, reported that through the end of October the Administrative Budget is slightly
underspending compared to the projected amount; it represents 83% of the year and actual expenditures are at 76.36%.
Revenues through October are $723,693.00 bringing the total year-to-date revenues to $63,276.226.00. Expenditure level
through October was $6,692,436.00; the year-to-date expenditure total is $58,081,503.00. Ms. Harrison noted that there
were no extraordinary or unexpected vouchers during October 2018. (The Financial Reports are attached to the original
minutes stored in the Executive Unit.)
Motion to recommend approval of the Board Voucher and Expenditure Reports for October 2019 to the full Board.
MOTION: H. Snider / SECOND: S. Killpack / AYES: G. Boehm, E. Cade, E. Caraballo, R. Fowler, B. Gohlstin, C. Handler,
K. Kern-Pilch, S. Killpack, E. Kirkland, M. Rodas, H. Snider / NAYS: None / ABSTAIN: None / Motion passed.
6. PEER SEAL OF QUALITY FOR ADULT CARE FACILITIES (ACFs) PROGRAM
Scott Osiecki, C.E.O., reported that the Board is seeking to develop a Peer Seal of Quality Program for ACFs to promote
safe, decent and affordable housing for individuals living with mental illness and was excited to introduce the Peer Seal of
Quality for ACFs Program designed to help the ADAMHS Board with this process.
The Board will contract with certified Peer Specialists and Peers in the process of becoming certified to conduct home visits
of the ACFs that have submitted responses to the Board Request for Proposals (RFPs) to be eligible to provide housing to
individuals with mental illness funded through the Board’s Residential Assistance Program (RAP).
Peers will perform the home visits in teams of two. During the home visits the teams will perform a walk through and visual
assessment of the residence, take photos, complete a checklist and provide a recommendation of a “Peer Seal of Approval.”
The home visit is not a licensing inspection as all of the homes will already be licensed by Ohio Department of Mental
Health & Addiction Services (OhioMHAS). Peers will be looking for cleanliness, upkeep of the property (carpets, floors,
cabinets, appliances, visual leaks, utensils, etc.), supply, availability and quality of food, clean sheets and towels, adequate
toiletries, etc. The Peers and the home visits will be coordinated by Craig Dunson, of Lifeworks Behavioral Health Solutions,
a peer operated organization.
Dr. Fowler suggested that, if this program proves successful as hoped, perhaps it could be considered for expanding to
include provider agencies as well. Mr. Osiecki offered to send to Board members a checklist of Peer Specialist
responsibilities related to the Peer Seal of Quality Program.
Motion to recommend approval of Peer Seal of Quality for ACFs Program to the full Board. MOTION: E. Kirkland
SECOND: H. Snider / AYES: G. Boehm, E. Cade, E. Caraballo, R. Fowler, B. Gohlstin, C. Handler, K. Kern-Pilch,
S. Killpack, E. Kirkland, M. Rodas, H. Snider / NAYS: None / ABSTAIN: None / Motion passed.
7. CONTRACTS
Chief Financial Officer, Felicia Harrison, highlighted agenda process sheets for agreements listed below, answered
questions, and provided clarification for committee members.
a) U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services, Substance Abuse & Mental Health Services Administration – Assisted
Outpatient Treatment (AOT) Grant – Supplemental Technical Assistance Funding - $25,000.00 (Individual
Trainers – Yet to be determined)
b) *Ohio Department of Rehabilitation & Corrections (ODRC) – Intensive Community Treatment (ICT) Team for
Cleveland Adult Parole Office
- Recovery Resources - $275,000.00
c) Cuyahoga County Juvenile Court (CCJC) Detention Center - Mental Health Services in the Detention Center
- Applewood Centers, Inc. - $400,000.00
d) Security Services Contract
- Safe Choice LLC - $17.50 hourly rate – Annual Estimate for CY2019 - $127,750.00
e) ADAMHS Board of Cuyahoga County Annual Meeting – Monday, May 13, 2019
- Cleveland Marriott East, 26300 Harvard Rd., Warrensville Heights – Not to exceed $15,000.00
2

 Committee of the Whole Minutes

November 14, 2018

f) Cultural Competency Breakfast – Monday, January 28, at Ariel International Center
- Ariel International Center, Caterer & personal service contract with Dr. Ciara Dennis–Morgan – Not to
Exceed $5,000.00
In answer to the Chair’s inquiry, Tami Fischer, Chief Administrative Officer, noted that the County Office did submit a bid
for security services. Unfortunately, the County currently has full-time officers only. If one of the County’s security officers
is assigned to the Board’s Administrative Offices, the Board would be responsible for paying the employee’s benefits and
overtime pay for hours needed. Coverage is also needed for the Seasons of Hope house requiring two officers at this
location. Ms. Fischer noted that these arrangements would result in doubling the cost of our security services.
Motion to recommend approval of Contracts (as listed above) to the full Board. MOTION: E. Kirkland / SECOND:
C. Handler / AYES: G. Boehm, E. Cade, E. Caraballo, R. Fowler, B. Gohlstin, C. Handler, K. Kern-Pilch, S. Killpack,
E. Kirkland, M. Rodas, H. Snider / NAYS: None / ABSTAIN: None / Motion passed.
8. AMENDMENTS TO CONTRACTS
a) *Amendment to Res. No. 18-06-04 Approval of Contracts - Projects for Assistance in Transition from
Homelessness (PATH) and Acceptance of additional Housing Funding
- FrontLine Service - $13,817.44 Increase
b) Amendment to Res. No. 18-07-03 Consulting contract for Remote Network Administration
- Christopher P. Tomaro – extension of contract term through March 31, 2019
c) Amendment to Res. No. 18-04-03 Approval & Ratification of Service Provider Contracts: Common Pleas
Court/Corrections Planning Board (CCPB) Residential Services for Men who are Dually Diagnosed (Contractor:
Catholic Charities/Matt Talbot in the amount of $160,000.00)
- Correction to reflect required match; $80,000.00 from CCPB and $80,000.00 from ADAMHS Board
Motion to recommend approval of Amendments to Contracts (as listed above) to the full Board.
MOTION: H. Snider / SECOND: C. Handler / AYES: G. Boehm, E. Cade, E. Caraballo, R. Fowler, B. Gohlstin, C. Handler,
K. Kern-Pilch, S. Killpack, E. Kirkland, M. Rodas, H. Snider / NAYS: None / ABSTAIN: None / Motion passed.
9. IDENTIFY CONSENT AGENDA
Rev. Gohlstin identified the following elements to include into the Consent Agenda: Acceptance of Board Voucher and
Expenditure Reports, Contracts, and Amendments.
10. POLICY STATEMENT RENEWAL


NOTIFICATION & REVIEW OF REPORTABLE INCIDENTS AND MUIs

Purpose: To assist contract service providers, Ohio Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services (OhioMHAS)
licensed residential facilities in recognizing and reporting incidents and events that they are required to report to the Alcohol,
Drug Addiction and Mental Health Services Board of Cuyahoga County Community (ADAMHS BOARD) and other entities.
To define the ADAMHS BOARD activities of reviewing such reports as within the scope of the ADAMHS BOARD’s
performance improvement process and to define the ADAMHS BOARD’s responsibilities to report and investigate incidents.
Mr. Garrity identified the minor language revisions made to the policy to correspond with Ohio Revised Code changes.
Motion to recommend approval of renewing the amended policy statement, Notification & Review of Reportable
Incidents and MUIs to the full Board. MOTION: H. Snider / SECOND: E. Kirkland / AYES: G. Boehm, E. Cade,
E. Caraballo, R. Fowler, B. Gohlstin, C. Handler, K. Kern-Pilch, S. Killpack, E. Kirkland, M. Rodas, H. Snider
NAYS: None / ABSTAIN: None / Motion passed.

3

 Committee of the Whole Minutes

November 14, 2018

11. DISCUSSION: DENTAL & PODIATRY PREVENTIVE CARE
To follow-up on a previous meeting discussion, the Board Chair opened the floor for further input. Mr. Snider reiterated his
stance that podiatry and dental care fits into the protocol of wrap-around services as an essential component of wellness.
Board members input:
- Peer Support Specialists could be used to help clients navigate the system to obtain the needed services.
- At initial assessments, there could be an added question to lead case managers and providers to address the
need for dental and podiatry care with their client/s.
Rev. Gohlstin spoke earlier with Board staff to gain further insight into this issue. He learned that these services are not the
Board’s responsibility and cannot be sustained. Presently, it does not appear to be a great need as most providers take
care of these client needs.
To further explore this issue, the Board Chair suggested forming an Adhoc Committee to be chaired by Mr. Snider. Rev.
Gohlstin asked the following Board Members to serve on this committee: Steve Killpack, Gregory Boehm, Katie Kern-Pilch,
and Mary Step. The charge will be to research available community resources. Rev. Gohlstin suggested an idea for
consideration with respect to assembling a group of dentists and podiatrists to provide their service one day per month for
agency clients on a pro-bono basis. Handouts were distributed that identified Dental Services Information and the Medworks
Dental Clinic on November 16 & 17, 2018 at the Cleveland Convention Center; the information is attached to the original
minutes in the Executive Unit.
12. REVIEW OF CY2019 ADAMHS BOARD BUDGET
Mr. Osiecki distributed revised pages to the CY2019 Budget Book and explained the rationale for the proposed revisions
and realignment of the budget with respect to the pooled funding section. (A cover page noting the revised pages/sections
is attached to the original minutes.)
To address the revenue reduction of $4 million as a result of the discontinuation of the 1915a Medicaid waiver, Mr. Osiecki
reiterated that mental health in schools has been reduced by 25% and all agency contracts were reduced by 10%. New
programs funded were those that specifically addressed the Board’s established priorities. Mr. Snider commended Mr.
Osiecki and Board staff for their diligence in providing Board members adequate time to thoroughly review the budget
material presented.
Motion to recommend approval of the CY2019 ADAMHS Board Budget as proposed to the full Board.
MOTION: E. Kirkland / SECOND: M. Rodas / AYES: G. Boehm, E. Cade, E. Caraballo, R. Fowler, B. Gohlstin, C. Handler,
K. Kern-Pilch, S. Killpack, E. Kirkland, M. Rodas, H. Snider / NAYS: None / ABSTAIN: None / Motion passed.
13. OLD/NEW BUSINESS
- Ms. Zietlow-DeJesus noted that the Ohio Association of County Behavioral Health Authorities (OACBHA) has
provided our Board with 1,000 free Deterra Bags developed to clean out medicine cabinets as an alternative for
taking unused medications to drop-off locations.
-

Mr. Osiecki distributed copies of the brochure entitled, “Expanded Withdrawal Management and Mental Health
Crisis Stabilization Services” developed by the Northeast Ohio Regional Collaborative—a partnership between
Behavioral Health Boards in Ashtabula, Cuyahoga, Geauga, Lake, Lorain, and Summit counties. This effort
collectively addresses a potential shortage of beds and provides contact information for referrals, etc.

-

Ms. Kern-Pilch addressed her concern regarding news stories related to the County Jail. Mr. Osiecki reported that
he and Maggie Tolbert, Assistant Chief Clinical Officer, have a meeting scheduled with the County to address
these same concerns and are also working to revamp our behavioral health system’s jail liaison program.

There being no audience comment or further business, the meeting adjourned at 5:40 p.m.
Submitted by: Carol Krajewski, Executive Specialist
Approved by: Rev. Benjamin F. Gohlstin, Sr., Board Chairperson
4

 