ALCOHOL, DRUG ADDICTION & MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES BOARD OF CUYAHOGA COUNTY
GENERAL MEETING MINUTES
SEPTEMBER 25, 2019
ADAMHS BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT:
Rev. Benjamin F. Gohlstin, Sr.
Gwendolyn A. Howard, LSW, MSSA
Reginald C. Blue, Ph.D.
Eugenia Kirkland, LSW, MSSA, CDCA
Crystal L. Bryant, Esq., MS, LSW
Max M. Rodas, MA
Erskine Cade, MBA
Sharon Rosenbaum, MBA
Elsie Caraballo
Harvey A. Snider, Esq.
J. Robert Fowler, Ph.D.
Mary M. Step, Ph.D.
ABSENT: Gregory X. Boehm, M.D., Katie Kern-Pilch, ATR-BC, LPC-S, Steve Killpack, MS
BOARD STAFF PRESENT: Scott Osiecki, Chief Executive Officer, Joseph Arnett, Carole Ballard, Curtis Couch, Erin DiVincenzo,
Tami Fischer, Felicia Harrison, Leslie Koblentz, Linda Lamp, Jacob Rosebrock, Madison Scagnetti, Starlette Sizemore-Rice, Larry
Smith
1. CALL TO ORDER / AUDIENCE INPUT
Chairperson, Benjamin Gohlstin, called the General Meeting to order at 4:00 p.m.; no audience input received on agenda items.
2. OATH OF OFFICE
Ms. Kelli Perk, Assistant Prosecuting Attorney from the Office of Cuyahoga County Prosecutor Michael C. O’Malley, administered
the Oath of Office to Max M. Rodas, MA, and Crystal L. Bryant, Esq., MS, LSW.
3. RECOGNITION OF CLIENT ARTWORK DISPLAY – July 2019
Madison Scagnetti, External Affairs Officer, highlighted the work produced by the Incarcerated Veterans’ Art Program and introduced
Ms. Sharon Kryza, one of the providers that brings these services to this population. Ms. Kryza thanked the Board for their
commitment with showcasing artwork and understanding the importance of art in developing self-understanding through times of
difficulty, transition and one’s experiences in life. Ms. Kryza also introduced Ms. Lauryn Harwell, Program Creator, and noted that
she has learned to be open and present with this population. Ms. Scagnetti awarded a Certificate of Participation to Ms. Kryza for
her efforts.
4.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES - The minutes from the July 31, 2019 General Meeting were approved as submitted.

5. CHAIR’S REPORT
Cuyahoga County Council Meetings – Rev. Gohlstin reported that Mr. Scott Osiecki, Chief Executive Officer, and he have been
meeting with Cuyahoga County Council members to share the Board’s mission, vision and needs.
Board of Directors Retreat - Rev. Gohlstin noted that a Board of Directors Retreat/Training has been scheduled for Saturday,
November 16, 2019, 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 Noon, at the ADAMHS Board’s Administrative Office. Agenda items to include, but not be
limited to, a presentation on Board ethics as well as how to avoid conflicts of interest. Rev Gohlstin noted that in the past Board
Retreats/Trainings transpired during August and is recommending that future Board of Directors Retreats/Trainings transpire at that
time.
October General Meeting - Rev. Gohlstin reported that the October General Meeting will be held at Murtis Taylor Human Services
Center.
6. NOMINATING COMMITTEE REPORT
Ms. Caraballo distributed the recommended Board member candidate’s OhioMHAS Board Member Appointment Application to the
full Board for review and discussion. She reported that based upon the Nominating Committee member’s interview process of

Page 1 of 8

 General Meeting Minutes

September 25, 2019

prospective candidates for the 2 existing state appointment vacancies, Nominating Committee members reached consensus to
recommend the identified individual for one of the state appointment vacancies.
Rev. Gohlstin noted that based on the Nominating Committee member’s interview process, 3 prospective candidates were selected;
2 Board member candidates for the existing OhioMHAS vacant appointment seats and 1 Board member candidate for the existing
county vacancy. However, one candidate was found to be ineligible for consideration due to a conflict of interest situation pursuant
to Ohio Revised Code §340.02. The second candidate has been recommended to the appointing authority for consideration as a
Board member.
Motion to request authorization from the full Board to submit the recommended Board member candidate for 1 of the 2
existing OhioMHAS vacant appointment seats to the Director of the Ohio Department of Mental Health & Addiction Services
(OhioMHAS). MOTION: E. Kirkland / SECOND: S. Rosenbaum / AYES: R. Blue, C. Bryant, E. Cade, E. Caraballo, R. Fowler, B.
Gohlstin, G. Howard, E. Kirkland, M. Rodas, S. Rosenbaum, H. Snider, M. Step / NAYS: None / ABSTAIN: None / Motion passed
7. COMMUNITY RELATIONS & ADVOCACY (CR&A) COMMITTEE REPORT
Committee Chair, Harvey Snider, reported on the CR&A Committee meeting held on September 4, 2019. He noted the following
agenda items of discussion:
▪ Legislative Update: Meet Our Legislators Series, Legislative Bills
▪ Sponsorships (Recommended for approval in Consent Agenda)
▪ Online Mental Health Screening Tool (Recommended for approval in Consent Agenda)
▪ Training Update - Roads to Recovery Conference, etc.
▪ ACEs Public Awareness Campaign
▪ Suicide Prevention Month Activities Update
▪ Census Hard to Reach Communities Committee Update
▪ Social Media and Media Tracking Reports
In collaboration with the Cuyahoga County Board of Health and OhioGuidestone, the Board has been involved in a partnership pilot
project called ACEs (Adverse Childhood Experiences) Pilot Project. The Board’s task has been centered around the education arm
about the impact of opiate addition on families for several designated communities. The Health Department chose the areas of Berea
and Olmsted Township/Olmsted Falls. In the 1st year of this 2-year funding initiative, the Board has provided training to law
enforcement on ACEs and this project. To date, 2 trainings have been delivered to the Berea Police Department and 2 more to
Olmsted Township and 1 to Olmsted Falls Police Department. The training is to help police officers become aware of adverse
childhood experiences.
Mr. Jacob Rosebrock, Community Relations and Engagement Specialist, highlighted that this campaign is part of a $12,500.00 grant
allocation that was given to the ADAMHS Board by the Cuyahoga County Board of Health (CCBOH); which is from a Center for
Disease Control (CDC) grant regarding ACEs and the opioid crisis. He noted that adverse childhood experiences are events that
may have a negative impact on a person’s lifelong health and prosperity and that this public awareness plan is designed to show
local community members that reside and work in the pilot program area the impact of opiate addiction on families. Two main
messages are utilized in this campaign; grab your cape one caring adult can make a difference in a child’s life and the other consisting
of statistics and information about ACE’s. All the materials include a webpage that is hosted by the CCBOH. The website includes
a link for community members to take the ACE’s quiz, which is a 10 question quiz about one’s childhood experiences. A score of 4
or more is considered significant for a person’s lifelong health and prosperity. The website provides information and help in
understanding what ACE’s are and what an individual’s score means. Advertising is utilized at the beginning of the school year in 2
surrounding malls; Great Northern in North Olmsted and Southpark in Strongsville.
Rev. Gohstin inquired as to why this pilot project targeted the areas of Berea and Olmsted Township/Olmsted Falls. Ms. Carole
Ballard, Director of Training and Education, reported that the CCBOH selected this area as a result of the Safe Passages program.
The Board has also provided training to local law enforcement on ACES and this project in Berea and Olmsted Falls. CCBOH will
be expanding ACEs in year 2 of this grant to include Police Departments in Strongsville and Middleburg Heights; with the ability to
make referrals to OhioGuidestone’s Resiliency program, which is associated with this grant. During year 2 of this grant, ADAMHS
staff hope to be much more engaged and involved in conversation regarding ACE’s in order to disseminate this information in a more
consistent manner.

Page 2 of 8

 General Meeting Minutes

September 25, 2019

Mr. Osiecki reported that Ms. Beth Zietlow-DeJesus, Director of External Affairs, is presently in Columbus providing testimony for
Senate Bill (SB) 59, which involves the need for pharmacies to provide training to pharmacists on Narcan. This Bill was introduced
by Nikki Antonio.
8. JOINT FAITH-BASED OUTREACH AND PLANNING & OVERSIGHT (P&O) COMMITTEE REPORT
Rev. Gohlstin, Faith-based Outreach Committee Vice Chair, reported on the Joint Faith-based Outreach and P&O Committee
meeting held on September 11, 2019. He noted that this joint committee meeting was scheduled to ensure all Faith-based providers
are informed of relevant information regarding the Board’s Calendar Year (CY) 2020 funding application process; and addressed
the following topics:
▪ 2019 Faith-based Outreach Initiatives Progress Report
▪ A motion was made to recommend Faith-Based organizations provide a brief narrative summary of their initiatives; based on
pre/post test scores to identify growth and concerns/challenges they have encountered through the provision of these services
▪ Presentation by Coalition for a Better Life dba Peace In The Hood
▪ Update on Faith-based Outreach Initiatives Documentary
▪ Rev. Gohlstin shared that he will be hosting/moderating a new television show on Channel 19 and will be requesting faithbased providers’ participation
▪ CY2020 Contract Review Process for Faith-based Outreach Initiatives
Ms. Eugenia Kirkland, P&O Committee Chair, reported on the P&O Committee portion of the Joint Faith-based Outreach and P&O
Committee meeting and addressed the following topics:
▪ Outcome Report from Behavioral Health Wellness Fair
▪ 6-Month Follow Up Report on the Mental Health Jail Liaison Program
▪ Progress Report on the Workforce Development Initiative
▪ Addiction Treatment Program (ATP) Presentation
▪ Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration’s (SAMHSA) Jail Diversion Grant Update
▪ Request for Issuance of Request For Proposal (RFP) For Security Services for CY2020
▪ Approval of Brown Consulting for the Annual Alcohol and other Drugs (AOD) Independent Peer Review as Required by
OhioMHAS for the Federal Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment (SAPT) Block Grant Funds: Residential Treatment
Services
▪ Request for Issuance of RFP for Needs Assessment
▪ Request for Issuance of RFP for Strategic Plan
 RESOLUTION NO. 19-09-01
AUTHORIZATION TO ISSUE A REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL (RFP) FOR SECURITY SERVICES FOR CY2020
Ms. Kirkland reported that the P&O Committee members discussed the request for authorization to issue a RFP for security services
for CY2020. The contract with Safe Choice LLC is from January 1, 2019 through December 31, 2019, with the option of a one year
renewal through CY2020. ADAMHS Board staff and Board of Directors would like to consider other security vendors and to begin
the RFP process. Ms. Kirkland stated that the Joint Faith-based Outreach and P&O Committee members recommend approval to
the full Board. Given no objections a vote was taken.
Motion to approve the Resolution No. 19-09-01. MOTION: E. Kirkland / SECOND: E. Caraballo / AYES: R. Blue, C. Bryant, E.
Cade, E. Caraballo, R. Fowler, B. Gohlstin, G. Howard, E. Kirkland, M. Rodas, S. Rosenbaum, H. Snider, M. Step / NAYS: None /
ABSTAIN: None / Motion passed
 RESOLUTION NO. 19-09-02
AUTHORIZATION TO ISSUE A ERQUEST FOR PROPOSAL (RFP) FOR A NEEDS ASSESSMENT/ANALYSIS
Ms. Kirkland reported that the ADAMHS Board routinely conducts a system Needs Assessment/Analysis to ensure that Cuyahoga
County’s Public Behavioral Health and Recovery System continues to adapt to an environment of high service demands and that
constrained resources are allocated appropriately. The Needs Assessment/Analysis will assist the ADAMHS Board in identifying
areas of greatest need for client services for planning, funding, evaluating and advocacy purposes. OhioMHAS, as well as general
evaluation standards, suggest that local Boards conduct a thorough Needs Assessment/Analysis approximately every five years.
The ADAMHS Board’s last Community Needs Assessment/Analysis was completed in 2016. In preparation for the development of

Page 3 of 8

 General Meeting Minutes

September 25, 2019

the Board’s 2021-2015 Strategic Plan, Executive staff and Board members are requesting that the Needs Assessment/Analysis be
completed by April 30, 2020. Ms. Kirkland stated that the Joint Faith-based Outreach and P&O Committee members recommend
approval to the full Board. Given no objections, a vote was taken.
Motion to approve the Resolution No. 19-09-02. MOTION: E. Kirkland / SECOND: H. Snider / AYES: R. Blue, C. Bryant, E.
Cade, E. Caraballo, R. Fowler, B. Gohlstin, G. Howard, E. Kirkland, M. Rodas, S. Rosenbaum, H. Snider, M. Step / NAYS: None /
ABSTAIN: None / Motion passed
 RESOLUTION NO. 19-09-03
AUTHORIZATION TO ISSUE A REQUEST FOR POPOSAL (RFP) TO IDENTIFY A CONSULTANT FOR THE DEVELOPMENT
OF A COMPREHENSIVE STRATEGIC PLAN
Ms. Kirkland reported that the ADAMHS Board utilized a Strategic Plan to position the Board and its service delivery system for
success in a recovery oriented system of care that is continually changing and increasingly demanding. The Strategic Plan is
intended to be a living document that will be modified with the ever-changing environment and will be regularly reviewed and updated
as needed by the ADAMHS Board of Directors and leadership staff. Executive staff and Board members are requesting to begin the
process of developing the 2021-2025 Strategic Plan in the second quarter of 2020, with a completion date and approval by the Board
of Directors during the November 18, 2020 General Meeting. Ms. Kirkland stated that the Joint Faith-based Outreach and P&O
Committee members recommend approval to the full Board. Given no objections, a vote was taken.
Motion to approve the Resolution No. 19-09-03. MOTION: E. Caraballo / SECOND: S. Rosenbaum / AYES: R. Blue, C. Bryant,
E. Cade, E. Caraballo, R. Fowler, B. Gohlstin, G. Howard, E. Kirkland, M. Rodas, S. Rosenbaum, H. Snider, M. Step / NAYS: None
/ ABSTAIN: None / Motion passed
9. FINANCE & OPERATIONS (F&O) COMMITTEE REPORT
Ms. Felicia Harrison, Chief Financial Officer, reported on the F&O Committee meeting held on September 18, 2019. Ms. Harrison
reported that the client centered funding strategy is related to the pooled funding. The total funds in the pool for 2019 was
$12,678,507.00 with 36 Provider Agencies approved to bill the pool. 28 Provider Agencies have billed the pool and 16 Agencies
submitted July and/or August billing. The total billed to the pool is $4,297,812.85 and as of September 18, 2019, the total amount
billed to the Pooled Funding is 33.9% of the total budgeted pool amount.
CONSENT AGENDA: Resolution Nos.19-09-04 through 19-09-06
.
 RESOLUTION NO. 19-09-04 – ACCEPTING THE REPORT OF THE CEO ON EXPENDITURES AND VOUCHERS
PROCESSED FOR PAYMENT DURING JULY 2019 AND AUGUST 2019
Ms. Harrison noted that in July, the Board received revenues of $562,822.00, bringing our total revenue to $51,466,960.00 which is
approximately 84.49% of our anticipated revenue for the year as a result of receiving our total County allocation in January 2019.
Expenditures for July were $3,138,238.00 bringing our total expenses for the first 7 months to $30,066,653.00 that is 47.04% of our
anticipated expenditures for the calendar year.
In August, the Board received revenues of $2,250,375.00, bringing our total revenue to $53,717,335.00 which is approximately
88.19% of our anticipated revenue for the year as a result of receiving our total County allocation in January 2019. Expenditures for
August were $3,925,648.00 bringing our total expenses for the first 8 months to $33,992,302.00 that is 53.18% of our anticipated
expenditures for the calendar year.
 RESOLUTION NO. 19-09-05 – APPROVAL AND RATIFICATION OF CONTRACTS:
1. OhioMHAS: Medication Addiction Treatment Program – Court Administrative Funds – $64,618.51
- Cleveland Municipal Drug Court - $6,076.98
- Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Drug Court - $35,449.02
- Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Recovery Drug Court - $23,092.51
2. US DHHS Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) Center for Mental Health Services
(CMHS): Assisted Outpatient Treatment (AOT) Grant – $846,689.00
- FrontLine Service - $599,169.00

Page 4 of 8

 General Meeting Minutes

September 25, 2019

- CWRU Begun Center - $200,000.00
- Board Contracted Attorneys - $35,020.00
3. US DHHS Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) Center for Mental Health Services
CMHS): Jail Diversion Grant – $326,340.00
- FrontLine Service - $260,340.00
- CWRU Begun Center - $66,000.00
4. Annual AOD Independent Peer Review as Required by OhioMHAS for the Federal Substance Abuse Prevention and
Treatment (SAPT) Block Grant Funds: Residential Treatment Services
- Brown Consulting – Not to exceed $50,000.00
5. Specialized Docket Support – Payroll Subsidy – $410,000.00
- Cleveland Municipal Court - $180,000.00
- Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Court - $120,000.00
- Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Court-Juvenile Division - $70,000.00
- South Euclid Municipal Court - $40,000.00
6. Behavioral Health Juvenile Justice (BHJJ) Project – Fiscal Year 2020-2021
- Applewood Centers
- Bellefaire Jewish Children’s Bureau
- Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Court-Juvenile Division
7. Sponsorships:
- Greater Cleveland Drug Court, Inc. Luncheon Contributing Sponsor (Friday, September 20, 2019, Holiday InnIndependence) - $500.00
- Every Brilliant Thing, Cleveland Playhouse (performance runs November – December 2019) - $1,250.00
- Greater Cleveland Urban Film Festival showing of A Tale of Two Mothers (September 12-20, 2019) - $1,500.00
- MHAC Public Officials Breakfast Bronze Sponsorship (October 11, 2019, Nuevo Restaurant) - $1,000.00
- Annual Grief Symposium Table Sponsor (October 4, 2019, Cuyahoga Valley Church) - $250.00
- “Remembering Our Babies” event hosted by the YWCA (October 15, 2019, Botanical Gardens) - $500.00
8. Online Mental Health Screening Renewal - $1,000.00
 RESOLUTION NO. 19-09-06 – APPROVAL OF CONTRACT AMENDMENT:
1. Amendment to Resolution 18-05-04 OhioMHAS Addiction Treatment Program (ATP) – (Pass Through Funding) $1,103,952.00
- Catholic Charities-Matt Talbot for Men and Women
- Cleveland Treatment Center
- Community Assessment and Treatment Services (CATS)
- Hitchcock Center for Women
- MetroHealth System
- Moore Counseling
- Recovery Resources
- The Salvation Army
- Stella Maris
- Cuyahoga County Treatment Alternatives to Street Crime (TASC)
Motion to approve the Consent Agenda (Resolution Nos. 19-09-04 through 19-09-06). MOTION: R. Fowler / SECOND: S.
Rosenbaum / AYES: R. Blue, C. Bryant, E. Cade, E. Caraballo, R. Fowler, B. Gohlstin, G. Howard, E. Kirkland, M. Rodas, S.
Rosenbaum, H. Snider, M. Step / NAYS: None / ABSTAIN: None / Motion passed
Ms. Harrison reported that Mr. Scott Osiecki, Chief Executive Officer, provided a State Opioid Response (SOR) Grants update. She
indicated that 2 grant proposals were submitted for targeted minorities and high risk families. These applications were due to the
State by September 20, 2019. She noted that the awards, which are for 1 year of funding, will be announced September 30, 2019
for project implementation to begin October 1, 2019. The estimated request for each of the 2 SOR grant proposals was
$1,000,000.00.

Page 5 of 8

 General Meeting Minutes

September 25, 2019

Ms. Harrison reported that there is another round of SOR applications for all of the provider agency participants that have received
SOR funding in 2019 for MAT programs, housing programs and peer support. These provider agencies are eligible to apply for year
2 of funding, which is for a 12 month timeframe as opposed to a 3 to 6 month amount that was received in 2019. This application is
due on October 2, 2019. She also noted that these provider agencies were requested to provide budget estimates; which total
approximately $3 Million.
Ms. Harrison noted that Mr. Osiecki also reported that the Board will continue to be the fiscal agent on behalf of the Northeast Ohio
Collaborative: Withdrawal Management/Detoxification and Crisis Bed Expansion. She noted that $1.5 Million was received for this
endeavor; which included $250,000.00 for mental health crisis; and that contracts for Fiscal Year (FY) 2020 will be forthcoming.
Mr. Snider noted that he is pleased to see that the Specialized Docket Support – Payroll Subsidy contract with Cleveland Municipal
Court, Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Court-Juvenile Division and South Euclid Municipal Court; however could the Board be
informed of all the municipal courts in Cuyahoga County relative to individuals being charged with driving under the influence and/or
misdemeanor drug charges to see how the Board can offer services and/or support. Mr. Osiecki highlighted that these funds are
pass through funds from OhioMHAS; hence the Board distributes these funds as directed by OhioMHAS. Mr. Marty Murphy,
reported that there is a process that municipal courts must follow via the Ohio Supreme Court to become certified as a specialized
docket; however many courts decline this certification process.
Ms. Linda Lamp, Executive Assistant, reported that the Board participates in the OhioMHAS Indigent Drivers Alcohol Treatment
(IDAT) program; which is utilized by 13 Cuyahoga County municipal courts to provide funds for individuals receiving alcohol and
other drug treatment services through OhioMHAS certified providers.
10. CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REPORT - Scott S. Osiecki
 Council Member meetings
Rev. Gohlstin and Mr. Osiecki have been meeting with members of County Council to talk about the Board’s funding, the Health
& Human Services Levy, the opioid settlement and the diversion center. To date, they have met with Councilpersons Cheryl
Stephens, Yvonne Conwell, Dan Brady, Dale Miller, Pernell Jones, and Scott Tuma. Additionally, Mr. Osiecki noted that they
will be meeting with Councilwoman Nan Baker in the near future.
[G. Howard and S. Rosenbaum left the meeting.]
 Diversion Center
Mr. Osiecki participated in a meeting with other stakeholders where preliminary findings from the consultants working on the
Justice Center were presented. Statistics from the Criminal Justice System Assessment and next steps in the process were
discussed. Dr. Leslie Koblentz, Chief Clinical Officer Consultant; Ms. Maggie Tolbert, Assistant Chief Clinical Officer; and Mr.
Osiecki participated in interviews with the consultants to provide information for the assessment.
The consultants were also retained to work on the planning of the Mental Health Diversion Center. Dr. Koblentz and Mr. Osiecki
participated in a meeting on September 11, 2019, when the consultants presented diversion goals, examples of Successful
Diversion Programs and the scope of the project. Ms. Tolbert & Mr. Osiecki were interviewed by the consultants in preparation
for this presentation.
 Staff Update:
o Ms. Linda Torbert, Director of Clients Rights, is resigning from the Board to take a positon at Lutheran Metropolitan
Ministry (LMM).
o Ms. Wendy Wils is a new transitional employee that will be stationed at the Board’s reception desk on Wednesday and
Fridays.
o On September 16, 2019, Board staff officially welcomed Mr. Joe Arnett to the ADAMHS Board as its new Adult Behavioral
Health Specialist; focusing on criminal justice.
o On Monday September 30, 2019, Board staff will be officially welcoming Ms. Charde Hollins to the ADAMHS Board as
its new Behavioral Health Prevention Specialist. Ms. Hollins is currently at Ohio Department of Youth Services.

Page 6 of 8

 General Meeting Minutes

September 25, 2019

o The Board’s position posting for the Director of Risk Management will be closing today. Ms. Tami Fischer, Chief
Administrative Officer, and Mr. Osiecki will be interviewing candidates in the near future.
o The Board will be reposting for the Residential Specialist and Claims & Membership Specialist vacancies.
 Loris Criss Visit
Ms. Tolbert, Ms. Zietlow-DeJesus and Mr. Osiecki joined OhioMHAS director Lori Criss on August 30, 2019, for a visit with Stella
Maris and St. Vincent Psychiatric Emergency Department (PED) and Rosary Hall. They were interviewed by TV 5, WCPN and
Cleveland.com.
 Opioid Settlement
Ms. Harrison, Ms. Fischer and Mr. Osiecki met with Mr. Armond Budish, Cuyahoga County Executive, and his team regarding
the opioid settlement. Mr. Budish requested that staff provide a plan to spend $16 million. This plan was submitted on
September 23, 2019.
 MetroHealth Jail Partnership
Board staff have been meeting with MetroHealth and the new jail administrator about how to curb the suicides in the jail. The
first step was providing Question, Persuade and Refer (QPR) training to all nurses in the jail. Once the jail has more staff, the
Board will be providing QPR to all of the correction officers and other staff in the jail. Eventually, the Board may even provide
the training to inmates.
o Dr. Koblentz, Ms. Tolbert and Mr. Osiecki met with MetroHealth, the jail administrator and Northcoast Behavioral
Healthcare’s Administration yesterday to discuss the process of pink slipping from the jail. More discussion will be had.
 St. Vincent CEO Meeting
On September 4, 2019, Ms. Tolbert and Mr. Osiecki met with Jan Murphy, President and Chief Executive Officer of St. Vincent
Charity Medical Center. Mr. Thom Olmsted, Director, External Affairs, was also in attendance during the discussion that included
several topics including continued partnerships, the psychiatric emergency room, Rosary Hall and other behavioral health
issues.
 CIT Interaction
Ms. Tolbert wanted to ensure that Mr. Osiecki mentioned that on the 2 occasions Board staff contacted the Cleveland Police
Crisis Intervention Team (CIT) officers to assist with client matters; both incidents were responded to by Officers Holub and
Cygan. They handled the incidents with genuine concern and care for the well-being of the clients.
 6-Year Capital Plan
Board staff will be working with providers on the development of the Board’s State Fiscal Year (SFY) 2021-2026 capital plan.
The focus is supportive housing projects, projects that can leverage other funding sources and other Mental Health (MH) and
Substance Use Disorder (SUD) program space that builds out the full continuum of care. The deadline to submit this plan is
October 10, 2019.
 SFY 2019-2020 Community Plan
Mr. Osiecki reported that OhioMHAS approved the Board’s SFY 2019-2020 Community Plan at the beginning of September,
2019. This plan has been posted on the Board’s website.
 Community Transition Program (CTP) Update
Mr. Larry Smith, Jr., Director of Programs, and Ms. Tolbert spoke with Frontline Service and they have agreed to administer the
CTP program; which links individuals returning to the community from prison with services. CareSource was previously
providing the SUD portion. Additionally, OhioMHAS is pleased with the Board’s choice of Frontline Service since they were
already doing the mental health portion of the program. This program will commence on October 1, 2019.

Page 7 of 8

 General Meeting Minutes

September 25, 2019

 Board of Health Overdose Grant
The Cuyahoga County Board of Health (CCBOH) has received a cooperative agreement award from the Centers for Disease
Control (CDC). The Overdose Data to Action project will expand rapid data collection efforts to better direct prevention and
treatment linkage efforts. The CCBOH will receive $4.4 million each year for three years.
o The Board is a partner in the project and will receive approximately $100,000.00 per year for supporting the integration
of State and Local Prevention activities in two ways:
 Hiring a fulltime Opioid Use Disorder (OUD) Specialist to collect in-depth case information and data related to OUD
mortality from survivors and families
 Provide system wide cross training to public safety forces across the county to raise awareness of programs and
challenges regarding the opioid epidemic.
 CY 2020 Funding Update
The Board has received over 200 program funding applications requesting continued funding for Calendar Year (CY) 2020.
Board staff will begin the process of reviewing the applications to create the recommendations for the CY 2020 budget that will
be brought to the Board during the October 23, 2019, Committee of the Whole Meeting.
11. OLD BUSINESS


Rev. Gohlstin noted that October, 2019, will mark his 17th anniversary on the Board; whether it be the Cuyahoga County
Community Mental Health Board or the ADAMHS Board of Cuyahoga County. During his tenure with any CEO, he has
been vocal regarding his concern for the lack of African American males on staff at the Board. He also reported that he
referred qualified African American male candidates for positions in the past and is hoping that future candidates will be
considered for vacancies as they arise.

12. NEW BUSINESS - None
13. AUDIENCE INPUT - None
There being no further business, the meeting adjourned at 5:11 p.m.
Submitted by:

Linda Lamp, Executive Assistant

Approved by:

________________________________________________________________________
Rev. Benjamin F. Gohlstin, Sr., Chairperson, ADAMHS Board of Cuyahoga County

Page 8 of 8

 