Draft 7-21-14
GATEWAY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION OF GREATER CLEVELAND
Minutes of a Meeting of the
Board of Trustees
Held on June 18, 2014
3:00 o'clock p.m.
Offices of
Climaco, Wilcox, Peca, Tarantino & Garofoli Co., L.P.A.
Cleveland, Ohio

There being a quorum present, Mr. Offtermatt called the meeting to
order at 3:05 p.m. All Board members were present: Tim Offtermatt,
Matt Carroll, Emmanuel Glover, Tracey Nichols and William Reidy.
Also present were Todd Greathouse, Brian Kelly and Dennis Wilcox,
General Counsel.
In addition, Kevin Cronin and Mary Sweeney attended, as well as
Michael King and Trevor McAleer from the County and Jason Hillman,
counsel to the Cleveland Cavaliers.
The first order of business was to offer public comment to those
present.
Mr. Cronin said that he believes the Board overseas an
important function and his goal is to learn about the leases, how
they work and how Gateway works. Mary Sweeney stated that she was
very interested in seeing how Gateway works and how it will manage
capital repairs.
Next, Mr. Offtermatt talked about the fact that the countywide excise
tax passed at the May primary election which provides for continual
collection of taxes on alcohol and tobacco products for use in
financing, constructing, maintaining or operating sports facilities.
He reminded everyone that it is now up to the County to determine how
and when monies generated from the tax are used. He reviewed the
history of Gateway in approving policies and procedures in June of
2012 (the “Policy”) to consider major capital repairs. He noted this
Policy applied to Gateway’s review of major capital repairs requested
under the Indians and the Cavs leases, and not the Browns, since
Gateway did not currently have any jurisdiction over the Browns
Stadium.
He observed that major capital is a subset of capital
repairs and the leases set forth the definition of these repairs.
The Gateway Policy provides that the teams have until July 1 to make
capital repair requests for over $500,000, or major capital, or in
the Indians case due to an inflation accelerator, approximately
$525,000. These must be a single repair that exceeds that amount.
He noted that these agreements are set forth in MOU’s the teams

 entered into in 2004 and team leases or amendments thereafter
reflecting these changes. He stated that Gateway’s role is to review
the major capital repair requests and turn them over to the City and
the County with a recommendation as to whether the requests complied
with leases.
Mr. Offtermatt then stated for the record that he did receive an
email from the Indians which indicated their intent to send major
capital by the July 1 deadline. He also noted that the Cavs had
already submitted a major capital request on May 27th. According to
the Policy adopted by Gateway, the Gateway Board has until August 31st
to receive its own consultant report and must decide by October 1st on
a recommendation to the County and the City on these requests. Those
dates are chosen because they also track the budget process set forth
in both leases, which are on a calendar year basis. He reported that
the Cavs and Indians may want to modify these procedures to take into
account their respective seasons for each team, and to perhaps modify
the submission dates to accommodate that. He proposed at that point
to allow other dates for submission as part of the Gateway Policy.
Tracey Nichols suggested they could actually put in their requests
earlier. Bill Reidy indicated that the teams are already putting in
much money for capital and that should be noted since this only
relates to major capital. Matt Carroll commented that this is the
first actual request for a major capital repair that has been
received to date.
Mr. Offtermatt then reviewed the Cavaliers capital repair request
submitted on May 27th.
He reported that Gateway is working with
Middough to review these requests. A response was delivered to the
Cavs and, as a result, Gateway has received some answers to its
questions, but Gateway and its consultant need to receive additional
information. The Cavs submitted a 10 year capital plan whereas only
5 years were required. The following are the items listed for 2014:
Roof repair
Command Center
Scoreboard
Video upgrades
Seating Bowl sound system
Approximately

$4,200,000
4,000,000
9,300,000
4,600,000
1,800,000
$23,000,000

He suggested Gateway should move as expeditiously as possible in
reviewing these submittals.
Next, was the Executive Director’s report. First, Mr. Greathouse
reported on the common areas and congratulated his staff on how well
the common areas look around Gateway. Concrete repairs of $100,000
had been made primarily to address trip and fall hazard areas first.
He also noted the tree line on Huron Road was being replaced because
of losses of trees due to harsh winter and rock salt. He noted that
the site itself was in full bloom. He reported that Gate C around the
2

 Ballpark included new benches and was set up as a picnic area. MB
Solution is a company being used to help Gateway with MBE/FBE
contracting and he was working with Andrea Anderson of that company
with respect to these matters. There have been 2 jobs submitted at
the Ballpark, including light towers and hot water replacement. He
also reported that security cameras are in the third phase of
updating to modern digital cameras at Carnegie and 9th. With respect
to Securitas, he pointed out that they have a new contract for 2015
at an increase of $.80 per man hour due to the Affordable Care Act.
He also noted there are new bike signs and sharrows around the
Ballpark, including requiring bikers to walk their bikes when within
the Gateway area.
He then discussed Indians’ maintenance through the Ballpark. At Gate
A there was a contractor issue with respect to a contract for
concrete repairs. Gateway saved $25,000 on the contract and will use
those monies to purchase sealants for the concrete. Many things are
being done at the Ballpark now involving addressing leaks, painting
and caulking needs. He also discussed the high steel in the upper
deck of the seating area where the paint is delaminating. Middough
did an RFP and the threshold for repairs will exceed $500,000. The
lowest bid was $772,000. Tracey Nichols asked if they used Project
Solutions as a potential company as a local business and Todd
Greathouse said he would look at them. He noted the bids came in a
wide range because of different methods of doing the painting, such
as between scaffolding or swing staging.
Mr. Greathouse also noted there was an alterations letter regarding
center field installing a temporary Fox Sports booth.
He also
reported there were bids out for new light fixtures to comply with
Major League standards.
In the Arena he reported that there was a recent walk through and
that the roof system was reviewed. Maintenance records are being
sent to Middough and Middough is reviewing this now. Tracey Nichols
mentioned that Chief McGowan complimented the Gateway staff for their
professionalism.
Next, Brian Kelly reported on financial issues. First he reported on
the operating account which had an opening balance of approximately
$250,000, receipts of $186,843, disbursements of $332,131 for a
balance on May 31st of $104,788. He then reported on the Ballpark
capital account which started the month with $107,818 and total
receipts were $988,534 and disbursements of $803,803 for a balance of
$292,548 on May 31st.
He reported that total Ballpark capital repairs so
approximately $1,400,000 out of the $2,800,000 expected.

far

were

Then, Mr. Kelly gave his next quarter forecast from June 1 through
August 30. The opening balance was $104,788 and anticipated revenues
3

 were $1,372,819 for a total of $1,477,607. Anticipated expenditures
were $1,374,000, leaving an operating balance of about $134,034
projected at the end of August. He summarized the taxes being paid
including by the Cleveland Indians of $560,793 and by the Cavs of
$255,128. This included both taxes and Business Improvement District
payments.
Finally, he gave an update on the audit and he noticed the audit was
under the new GASB 65 Rules and that he expected an audit meeting on
June 26. He then turned it over to Mr. Offtermatt who asked that the
audit be put on the website when it was completed.
The next meetings are scheduled for August 13, 2014 at 3:00 p.m. and
November 19, 2014 at 3:00 p.m.
Upon motion by Mr. Carroll, seconded by Ms. Nichols, the Board
unanimously adjourned the meeting at 3:45 p.m.

APPROVED BY:
SECRETARY-TREASURER
_________________________

4

 