BOARD OF TRUSTEES
The MetroHealth System
Date:

September 25, 2019

Time:

8:00 a.m.

Place:

The MetroHealth System Board Room

Present:

Ms. Dee, Mr. Hairston, Mr. Hurwitz, Mr. McDonald, Mr. Monnolly, Mr. Moss, Dr. Silvers,
Ms. Whiting

Staff:

Dr. Boutros, Dr. Boulanger, Ms. Brown, Dr. Chehade, Mr. Jones, Ms. Kline, Mr. Nevel,
Mr. Phillips, Ms. Platten, Mr. Stern, Ms. Wahl, Dr. Watts, Dr. Werner

Guests:

Mr. Brian M. O’Neill, Chair, Board of Directors, The MetroHealth Foundation (via telephone)

MINUTES OF MEETING
The meeting was called to order by Dr. Silvers at 8:10 a.m.
(The minutes are written in a format conforming to the printed meeting agenda for the convenience of
correlation, recognizing that some of the items were discussed out of sequence.)
1.

Minutes
The Board approved the Minutes of the Regular Meeting of July 24, 2019. RESOLUTION 19313.

2.

Consent Agenda
A.

Audit and Compliance Committee - None

B.

Community Engagement Committee – No Meeting

C.

Diversity Committee – None

D.

Executive Committee – None

E.

Facilities and Space Committee
1.

The Board unanimously approved the amendment of the agreement with Turner
Construction Company to provide the Campus Transformation Project construction
services and set the Guaranteed Maximum Price (GMP) for Phase C. The GMP for
Phase C shall not exceed $274,606,290 for a total amended agreement amount not
to exceed $479,372,080 to be paid out of capital funds previously approved
through Board Resolution 19088. RESOLUTION 19314.

2.

The Board unanimously approved the amendment of the agreement with Mitchell
Planning Associates to provide additional exterior security design services for the
Campus Transformation Project. The total fees for this additional work shall not
exceed $105,000, for a total amended fee amount not to exceed $2,274,635 to be
paid out of capital funds previously approved through Board Resolution 19088.
RESOLUTION 19315.

 3.

F.

Finance Committee – No Meeting

G.

Legal and Government Relations Committee
1.

3.

The Board unanimously approved certain Pre-Authorized Owner’s
Representative/Project Management Services Providers for a period of up to three
years. The list of Pre-Authorized Owner’s Representative/Project Management
Services Providers is shown in the attached Exhibit A. RESOLUTION 19316.

The Board unanimously approved certain core terms for a three-year Collective
Bargaining Agreement between MetroHealth and Ohio Patrolmen’s Benevolent
Association for the purpose of finalizing negotiations and executing contract
documents. The core terms are set forth in Attachment A. RESOLUTION 19317.

H.

Nominating Committee – No Meeting

I.

Patient Experience Committee – Canceled

J.

Quality and Safety Committee – None

President and CEO’s Report
Dr. Boutros began his report by recognizing three individuals that had made significant
contributions and commitments to MetroHealth who have passed away in September 2019:
Dr. Clyde (Les) Nash, former Chair of Orthopaedic Surgery for not quite a decade beginning
1991, passed away on September 13, 2019; Steven A. Minter, a mentor to Dr. Boutros and a
2018 recipient of The Cleveland Heritage Medal, passed away on September 19, 2019; and Dr.
Mammen Puliyel, a Pediatric physician, passed away on September 18, 2019.
Several highlights from the September President’s Report include: (1) MetroHealth’s Outpatient
Pavilion has become a food distribution center every third Tuesday of the month with the
assistance from the Greater Cleveland Food Bank providing produce to patients and community
members and has been so welcomed by the neighborhood that the program is expected to grow
within the next few years to include other MetroHealth facilities; (2) recognizing JoAnn and Bob
Glick for supporting The MetroHealth System with two gifts totaling $500,000 to Students are
Free to Express (SAFE) Project, an arts-based program to assist students under toxic stress along
with the beginning of MetroHealth’s Autism Assessment Clinic; (3) MetroHealth receiving approval
to start an Addiction Medicine Fellowship Program to educate physicians to address the opioid
crisis; (4) the Doc2Go program telehealth program now offering college students nationwide with
high quality access to medical care with $0 copay; (5) MetroHealth welcomed Congressman Bob
Latta, member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee of thOhio’s
Congressional
5
District
located in Northwest and North Central Ohio, to learn about Population Health and health care
services to the uninsured and underinsured; (6) MetroHealth welcomed Paola DeMaria, State
Superintendent of Schools, who toured and evaluated the Lincoln West School of Science and
Health and, in conjunction with that visit, Eric Gordon, CEO of the Cleveland Metropolitan School
District (CMSD), will be looking to expand the school-based health program to the entire CMSD
region. Dr. Boutros was privileged to participate in three events: (1) the keynote speaker for the
Hispanic Heritage Month Opening Ceremony at Cleveland City Hall on Friday, September 13,
2019; (2) interviewee at the Keynote Conversation: Compassion in Action Healthcare Conference
in Boston, Massachusetts, on September 8-10, 2019, along with Laura Crooks, CEO at Yakima
Children’s Village in Washington, Dr. Peter Slavin, President of Massachusetts General Hospital,
noting MetroHealth’s Dr. Terry Stancin was The Schwartz Center 2018 National Compassionate
Caregiver of the Year Award recipient; and (3) a panelist at the Crain’s Health Care Summit held
at Case Western Reserve University’s Tinkham Veale University Center on August 29, 2019, along
with five Northeast Ohio’s CEO’s from Summa Health, Cleveland Clinic, Sisters of Charity Health
2

 System, Akron Children’s Hospital, and University Hospitals discussing different areas of focus
and their specific approach to Population Health and social determinants of health.
4.

Nursing/Magnet Report – Melissa Kline, Chief Nursing Officer
Ms. Kline reported that 12 nurses graduated with their Master’s of Science in Nursing degree
from an onsite program at MetroHealth in partnership with Cleveland State University, noting that
all the nurses achieved an advanced degree in the specialized areas of nursing but are not
advanced practice nurses. The following three nurses were nominated for the March of Dimes
Nurse of the Year awards and are invited to attend a ceremony on November 1, 2019, in
Columbus: Dr. Wendy Sarver, Director of Nursing Research; Lisa Demore, a RN Nurse in
Emergency Medicine at Cleveland Heights; and Kathleen Glaser, a RN Nurse and Staff Educator in
Perioperative Services. Kelly Gallagher, Nurse Manager in Labor and Delivery, was nominated by
The Greater Cleveland Organization for Nursing Leadership for the Aspiring Leader Award from
the Ohio Organization for Nursing Leadership, the recipient to be announced at the Annual
Conference in November. Other announcements included the Advanced Practice Provider Council
th
of The MetroHealth System hosting the
Annual
14
Advanced Practice Pharmacology Update on
October 11, 2019, and Ms. Kline participating as a keynote speaker at Chamberlain University’s
nursing graduation ceremony on September 13, 2019.

5.

Medical Staff
A.

Report of Medical Staff President – Dr. Sandra Werner
Dr. Werner began her report by thanking the Board members and senior leadership for
participating in the Medical Staff meeting in August. The loss of Dr. Mammen Puliyel was
acknowledged as a respected pediatric hematologist and resident program director,
noting she commended members of the Medical Staff, the House Staff, and Nursing Staff
who went above and beyond to support their colleagues in assuming clinical duties and
taking care of patients as well as their colleagues. Great Catch Safety Award recipients
are Hannah Farver, a RN in Perioperative Services, for catching a wrong dosage on a PCA
pump prescribed for a 12-year old female patient in the OR Recovery room and
preventing a significant overdose, and two Anesthesia Department colleagues, Dr.
Jessica Lovich-Sapola, soon to be President of the Medical Staff, and Dr. Quaratulain
Samoon, for catching mislabeled Fresh Frozen Plasma by the blood bank in a massive
transfusion cooler and prevented a serious reaction. At the request of Dr. Werner, Ms.
Whiting made a motion and the Board unanimously approved the Medical Staff
Appointments, Actions and Reappointments for September 2019, as well as the Medical
Executive Committee Minutes of August 9, 2019.
Dr. Boutros recognized Dr. Brook Watts for attaining Professor of Medicine at Case
Western Reserve University at a very young age.

B.

Approval of Medical Staff Providers Appointments, Actions and Reappointments
– May 2019
1. The Board unanimously approved the Medical Staff Providers Appointments, Actions
and Reappointments for September 2019. RESOLUTION 19318.

C.

Medical Executive Committee Minutes – August 9, 2019

D.

Report of Case Western Reserve University (CWRU), School of Medicine –
Dr. Patricia Thomas
There was no report from Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine in
Dr. Thomas’ absence.
3

 6.

Audit and Compliance Committee
A.

Report of Committee Chairperson McDonald
Mr. McDonald reported the Committee met on September 11 and began with Cheryl Wahl
presenting a comprehensive report on her enhancement of the Compliance program,
noting expanding the risk assessment process and implementing several communication
plans to include identifying, monitoring, analyzing, and correcting by department heads
and expanding review of the program to include the Department of Justice and KPMG,
MetroHealth’s Internal Auditor. Communication plans implemented include: Ms. Wahl
writing an internal article on becoming the World’s Most Ethical Company which she has
performed in the past and is striving to do at MetroHealth; a Community Blog located on
the metrohealth.org website under
; the Did you know
Transforming Our Community
internally informing staff at MetroHealth what is happening within the Compliance
series
Department; and the Transformation Book Club which a leader each month will select and
present a book as a topic for discussion in a casual setting, noting Dr. Brook Watts was
the first leader to present a book on August 20, 2019.
The compliance program has been enhanced to include the following four goals:
measuring effectiveness using data to include creating a dashboard for board reporting
and creating trend HIPAA correction actions; improving physician coding accuracy with a
goal of reducing errors by 3%; measuring effectiveness using data ethics and compliance
reports; and securing the use of the MetroHealth Ethics Line (MEL) by staff to report
issues. The 2019 Ethics and Compliance Work Plan reported the following seven items
that are to be completed as scheduled: oversight, documentation and coding, billing and
reimbursement, financial incentives, patient safety and quality, privacy and security, and
pharmacy. The Internal Auditors gave a 2019 update in the third quarter which included
financial reporting, governance, the status of the Internal Audit Plan, and integrated risk
assessment and planning; accomplishments in the third quarter included continuous
auditing and analytics of leveraged data from key applications for auditing and risk
analysis, integrated assurance of coordination and collaboration between Internal Audit
and Ethics and Compliance, communicating with management concerning the updates,
and improving the financial reporting governance to include consolidated certification
reviews in compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Internal Audit Plan is on
track to comply with the planned audit status and the 2020 plan is complete and will be
implemented.
Ms. Wahl reported that David Fiser gave a cybersecurity update and reviewed the results
of monthly phishing tests that were implemented to include training and corrective
action. RSM reported a review of construction costs and the Guaranteed Maximum Price
from Turner which included identifying potential adjustments and making adjustments to
invoices.

B.

7.

Non-Consent Agenda
1. Action Items - None
2. Information Items
a. 2019 External Audit Plan
b. Transformation Project Construction Cost Review
c. 2019 Compliance Update
d. 2019 Internal Audit Update
e. Cyber Security & IT Update

Community Engagement Committee – No Meeting

4

 8.

Diversity Committee
A.

Report of Committee Chairperson Anderson
While Ms. Anderson was attempting to conference into the meeting, Ms. Whiting
reported that the Campus Transformation update was given with respect to the MBE and
FBE local spend, noting additional opportunities will be given for inclusion and diversity
with respect to work force and construction companies as progress moves to the interior
of the building. Numbers will be increasing as minorities are included in the interior
trades such as installing dry wall and HVAC as opposed to steel framing of the building.
Procurement officers are meeting their challenges as they expand their reach to include
businesses in the local community for employment.
Alan Nevel, Senior Vice President and Chief Diversity and Human Resource Officer, and
Domonique Allds, Director of Provider Recruitment and Network Development, have
formed a group to develop an overall strategy for diverse provider recruitment which
include physicians, dentists, and residents and also includes areas of development and
retention, the first meeting being scheduled for October 1, 2019. Mr. Nevel also reported
a recruiting visit with three residents, of whom two are third year and one second year,
to Meharry Medical College, in Nashville, Tennessee, and returned to MetroHealth with
approximately 30 names of diverse provider candidates who are focused primarily on
Internal Medicine, Med Peds, and Primary Care. Two events were attended locally at
CWRU, one being a speed mentoring event focusing on residents who could meet a
number of diverse providers to develop relationships and the second being a Lunch-nLearn session with two diverse student affinity groups on campus to share MetroHealth’s
story and who showed an interest in getting involved with our high school students.
Dr. Boutros reported that Justin Gallo, Vice President of Supply Chain, started at
MetroHealth on September 16, 2019 and will be responsible for inclusion and diversity;
Mr. Gallo recently served as head of international supply chain management at the
Cleveland Clinic Health System. Early discussions concerning provider recruitment
through MetroHealth operations between Drs. Boutros and Boulanger have been
centered around developing and supporting a loan forgiveness program for one or two
minority students specifically interested in Internal Medicine or one of the needed
primary care specialties.

B.

Non-Consent Agenda
1. Action Items - None
2. Information Items
a. Campus Transformation Update
b. Planning, Design & Construction Update
c. Facilities Update
d. Procurement Update
e. Provider Recruiting Update
f. Employee Business Resource Group Updates

9.

Executive Committee – No Report

10.

Facilities and Space Committee
A.

Report of Committee Chairperson Monnolly
Mr. Monnolly began the Facilities report noting that normal power outages have been
occurring; MetroHealth had to shut down its system and run on generators due to First
Energy’s 10,000 volt insulator failure. Report on the Transformation began with 300
caissons being already installed with only 18 left to finish as of Monday, September 23,
5

 2019. The tower crane installed on the Main Campus is approximately the height of the
new hospital being constructed. Erection of steel on the Central Utilities Plant (CUP) is
rapidly moving along; the concrete stair tower for Tower A and Tower C of the hospital
are beginning and the forming and pouring cement for the main elevators in Core B has
begun. Mr. Monnolly acknowledged a colleague and Marvin Daniels for their efforts in
crunching numbers in conjunction with setting the Guaranteed Maximum Price (GMP) for
Phase C resolution of the Campus Transformation approved in the Consent Agenda which
led to being just under budget and on schedule with an additional 125 items to be
reviewed in the future for additional savings.
B.

Non-Consent Agenda
1. Action Items - None
2. Information Items
a. Facilities Management Update
b. Campus Transformation Update

11.

Finance Committee – No Meeting

12.

Legal and Government Relations Committee
A.

Report of Committee Chairperson Whiting
Ms. Whiting stated that the Committee met on September 11, 2019 and began with a
recommendation to approve a Collective Bargaining Agreement with the Ohio Patrolmen’s
Benevolent Association to include significant terms and conditions of change noted on
the Attachment A; she also recognized that the quality of the force has increased over
time and hearing people state that MetroHealth’s Public Safety Protective Services to be
one of the best non-city police forces in the region. The Government Relations update
was given by Tracy Carter in Executive Session which included a detailed review of the
federal and state priorities such as Medicare, prescription legislation, and legislation
being proposed that would not only benefit MetroHealth but also rural hospitals. Laura
McBride provided an update on risk management in Executive Session which included a
claims review and discussion surrounding the current insurance market conditions.

B.

Non-Consent Agenda
1. Action Items - None
2. Information Items
a. Government Relations Update
b. Risk Management Report Update
c. Update on Recent Changes to Chapter 339

13.

Nominating Committee – No Meeting

14.

Patient Experience Committee – Canceled – Now Combined with Quality and Safety

15.

Quality and Safety Committee
A.

Report of Committee Chairperson Silvers
Dr. Silvers stated the Committee met on August 28, 2019 and covered four basic areas:
(1) review of four different projects that was an educational process for Board members
which included major activities in planning for next year concerning identifying and
addressing potential problems with failures and the effects within the System before an
adverse event occurs; (2) review of performance at current time and year-to-date of
eight components of System goals and finding progress against certain quality goals with
consideration that some goals are aggressive in terms of difficulty in performance;
6

 (3) review of three activities with measures defined by the Centers for Medicare &
Medicaid Services (CMS) that challenge MetroHealth due to the demographics of our
population and social determinants of health which covers Value Based Purchasing (VBP),
the Hospital Readmission Reduction Program (HRRP), and Hospital Acquired Conditions
(HAC); and (4) and review of the Likelihood to Recommend for Patient Experience
System Goal in which the population tends to rate lower but reported MetroHealth is
performing at Target for the stretch goal. Performance in each of VBP, HRRP, and HAC
has been significantly reduced with penalties in 2020 being 0.00004% for VBP, 0.2% for
HRRP, and none for HAC. Dr. Silvers congratulated the MetroHealth staff on their
performance with respect to meeting these goals and closing the gap on reducing the
penalties in 2020 and clearly a measurement of how MetroHealth takes care of its
patients.
Dr. Boutros reported that MetroHealth has met its lowest infection rate not only in the
history of the organization but in the state of Ohio as well with respect to Catheter
Associated Urinary Tract Infections (CAUTI), Dr. Watts adding that MetroHealth is also
doing well with C. Diff.
B.

16.

Non-Consent Agenda
1. Action Items - None
2. Information Items
a. Failure Mode Effect Analysis Selection
b. System Goals Performance
c. CMS Payment Programs
d. Patient Experience System Goal Performance
e. Patient Experience Regulatory Reporting Programs

Foundation and System Philanthropy Report – Kate Brown – President, The
MetroHealth Foundation and MHS Chief Development Officer
Ms. Brown reported that great progress is being made concerning the MetroHealth’s For All of Us
$100 million campaign, noting approximately $8.2 million has been committed to capital and
$39.1 million committed to program and endowment. Other donors and prospects new to
MetroHealth are looking to make transformational commitments in the third and fourth quarters
of 2019 which should lead MetroHealth to attaining a goal of $50 million by the end of 2019; Dr.
Boutros and Ms. Brown are scheduled to meet with a business leader in mid-October in making a
significant transformational campaign gift to our hospital. The MetroHealth Foundation and its
Board of Directors are mourning the loss of Dwight M. Allgood, Jr., who had served on the Board
for 35 years, was a former Chair of the Foundation, was the inspiration behind and founding
Chair of the Foundation’s Governance Committee and had never wavered in his support for
MetroHealth. On November 4, 2019, Crain’s will publish an article authored by Mr. Brian O’Neill,
the Foundation’s Board Chair, that will discuss the role of donor advised funds to also be included
as part of MetroHealth’s estate planning session. Two invitations for events being sent are: (1)
Dr. Boulanger and Dr. Chae will lead discussions with Dr. P. Hunter Peckham and Dr. Al Connors
focused on MetroHealth’s academic mission and research education concerning Population Health
on October 23, 2019; and (2) a thank you to Mr. O’Neill, Dr. Boutros and Craig Richmond for
making arrangements with the Bernstein Group, a major investor in our bond financing
concerning social investments, to host a discussion for their clients at their offices in Cleveland
involving Dr. Boutros and Eric Glass, Portfolio Manager of their Municipal Investment Policy
Group, on November 4, 2019.
Mr. O’Neill added that he and Ms. Brown had visited the Urban Community School campus in
early September to view the progress of its construction and came away from visit with great
fundraising opportunities. A meeting was held with Mr. O’Neill, Ms. Brown, and Dr. Jeffrey
Claridge, the Service Line Medical Administrator for Trauma Surgery, to discuss questions that
arise concerning the trauma unit when Foundation members meet with donors and Dr. Claridge
7

 compiled statistical information and results to be taken back to the Foundation Board to better
position members to answer questions regarding the MetroHealth story with possible donors.
Three new board members approved at the Foundation’s Executive Committee meeting to be
accepted after voting are: Miguel de Gracia, Chief Executive Officer of Root Candles; Andy
Jones, Chief Executive Officer of MCPc; and Ricardo León, Executive Director of the Metro West
Community Development Organization.
A motion was unanimously passed by roll call vote to go into Executive Session (9:15 a.m.) to discuss
personnel, matters required by law to be kept confidential and trade secrets.
Following the Executive Session, the meeting reconvened in open session at approximately 9:50 a.m.
17.

Other Board Items
A. Reaffirmation of Commitment to Maintain a Level I Adult and Level II Pediatric Trauma Center
at MetroHealth Medical Center
The Chair noted that the Chief Legal Officer provided information concerning a
recommendation for the approval of the purchase of an excess liability insurance policy.
There being no further questions, the Board unanimously reaffirmed its commitment to
maintain a Level I Adult and Level II Pediatric Trauma Center at MetroHealth Medical Center
according to the published standards and guidelines of the American College of Surgeons.
RESOLUTION 19319.

The meeting adjourned at approximately 10:05 a.m.
NEXT MEETING:

October 23, 2019 (WEDNESDAY) – 8:00 a.m.
The MetroHealth System
Respectfully submitted,

Vanessa Whiting, Chairperson

Akram Boutros, M.D., FACHE
President and Chief Executive Officer

8

 