Minutes of the Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees
Wednesday, September 11, 2019

The regular meeting of the Cuyahoga Arts & Culture (CAC) Board of Trustees was called to order at 4:07
p.m. at Karamu House, 2355 E 89th Street, Cleveland, OH 44106.
The roll call showed that Trustees Garth, Hanson, and Sherman were present. It was determined that there
was a quorum.
Trustee Mendez arrived at 4:16 p.m. Trustee Miller was absent.
Also in attendance were: CAC staff: Jill Paulsen, interim CEO & executive director; Luis Gomez; Meg
Harris; Heather Johnson-Banks; Dan McLaughlin; India Pierre-Ingram; and Jake Sinatra.
1.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Motion by Trustee Hanson, seconded by Trustee Garth, to approve the minutes from the April 24, 2019
Board of Trustees meeting. Discussion: None. Vote: all ayes. The motion carried.
2.

PUBLIC COMMENT ON MEETING AGENDA ITEMS

There were no public comments on the meeting agenda items.
3.

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR’S REPORT

Ms. Paulsen thanked everyone for joining her and the Board. Ms. Paulsen’s remarks can be found here.
4.

CONNECT WITH CULTURE

Karamu House: General Operating Support and Support for Artists grant recipient.
5.

UPDATE ON PARTNERSHIP PROJECT

Ms. Paulsen shared an update on a new partnership project among CAC, Arts Cleveland (formerly CPAC)
and the Arts and Culture Action Committee (political action committee). The three organizations are
working with the consulting firm WolfBrown to help identify ways they can work better together for the
benefit of residents and arts organizations.
Trustee Sherman asked who WolfBrown was and Ms. Paulsen stated that they are a nationally recognized
arts consulting firm. She added that prior to the selection of the firm, a request for proposal (RFP) was

 released and that as a result of that process WolfBrown was selected. Ms. Paulsen shared that WolfBrown
rose to the top with their experience in the Cleveland arts community and come highly regarded.
Trustee Hanson asked how the partnership project is funded. Ms. Paulsen stated that the Cleveland
Foundation provided the funding and a request is pending with the Gund Foundation.
6.

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SEARCH

CAC Trustee Hanson updated the Board on the executive director search, stating that the board continues
to work with Arts Consulting Group and its Search Team, comprised of a dozen community leaders, to
identify and name CAC’s next executive director. Trustee Hanson’s full remarks can be found here.
Trustee Garth asked if the executive director search was connected with the partnership project. Trustee
Hanson said they are separate but that each is aware that the other is happening.
Trustee Mendez clarified that the two projects are running parallel, that the executive director search is
continuing while recognizing that any executive director chosen will need to lead the continued partnership
project. Trustee Hanson confirmed her clarification.
7.

FINANCE REPORT

Ms. Harris’ report can be found here.
8.

PUBLIC COMMENT

Walter Allen Rodger Jr. (Cuyahoga County)
The next meeting will be held on Wednesday, November 13, 2019. Location is to be determined.
9. ADJOURNMENT
Motion by Trustee Hanson, seconded by Trustee Mendez, to adjourn the meeting. Discussion: None. Vote:
all ayes. The motion carried. The meeting was adjourned at 4:47 p.m.

Charna Sherman, President, Board of Trustees
Attest:
Gwendolyn Garth, Secretary, Board of Trustees

 