THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
AUDIT AND CONIPLIANCE COMMITTEE
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES

DATE: Wednesday, December 12, 2018
TEVIE: 1:30 to 4:00 pm.
PLACE: MetroHealth Medical Center

K107, Business Services Building

COMMITTEE Mr. McDonald and Dr. Silvers

TRUSTEES:

ADDITIONAL Ms. Whiting

TRUSTEES:

STAFF: A. Boutros, MD, D. Fiser, G. Himes, M. Phillips, C. Richmond, C. Forino Wahl
GUESTS: R. Barre, J. Holloway, J. Mylen (KPMG), J. Croy (RSM)

Dr. Silvers called the meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee to order at 1:26 pm. Please note
that minutes are written to conform to the printed agenda and are not necessarily in the order of
discussion.

I.

II.

The minutes of the regular Audit and Compliance Committee meeting held on September 12, 2018
were approved as presented.

INFORMATION ITEMS

Craig Richmond, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer introduced John Croy, RSM
Senior Director and National Leader of Construction Advisory Services, who provided an update
on the Transformation Project construction cost review services. Mr. Croy stated they continue to
conduct reviews of the major vendors and contractors participating in the project as well as
participates in the pencil draw process (draft invoice review). Mr. Croy indicated they reviewed the
Guaranteed Maximum Price (GMP) contract for Phase A which identified an opportunity to reduce
the overall GMP cost as weil as other modi?cations/comments that were re?ected in the ?nal GMP.
In addition, the close-cut review for the parking garage project has been scheduled. Mr. Croy also
mentioned that revisions were submitted to the change management process describing 
involvement in reviewing change orders and construction contingency documentation that meet
certain thresholds.

Cheryl Forino Wahl, Senior Vice President, Chief Ethics and Compliance Of?cer provided an
update on the fourth quarter compliance program activities stating that eighty?five percent of the
annual work plan has been completed. Ms. Wahl stated the department completed the 2019
application for the World?s Most Ethical Company. Also, Compliance completed 204 live Code of
Conduct training sessions across all MetroHealth locations for all employees, contractors,
volunteers and the Board of Trustees. Ms. Wahl mentioned that a guest speaker from the Ohio
Ethics Commission presented on how the Ohio Ethics rules affect MetroHealth employees and
practices. Since the last meeting, Ms. Wahl shared that the department collected and analyzed the
con?ict of interest disclosure forms from all employees, Board of Trustees and from the
MetroHealth Foundation Board. Ms. Wahi proceeded with reviewing the four 2018 Ethics and

Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting Minutes
December 12, 2018
Page 2 of 3



Compliance goals: building an ethical culture through the new Code and corresponding training;
updating the Con?ict of Interest disclosure process across the system; improving privacy awareness
and accountability; and optimizing the 34013 program. Three of the four goals have been met as of
the meeting and one is expected to be completed by the end of the year. Lastly, Ms. Wahl
discussed the 2019 Ethics and Compliance work plan which includes over 300 projects, 70% of
these projects will be new in 2019. The goals for 2019 include expanding the risk assessment
process to build a vendor risk management program, and (ii) develop metrics to measure the
effectiveness of their ethics and compliance program activities.

Jim Mylen, Partner with KPMG Advisory Services, serves as MetroHealth?s Director of Internal
Audit. Mr. Mylen introduced both Robin Barre, Director, and erod Holloway, Managing Director,
with KPMG. Mr. Mylen proceeded with providing an update on the fourth quarter 2018 Internal
Audit Plan and shared the plan is on track and all audits will be completed in February 2019 as
planned. Ms. Barre provided an update on their accomplishment and goals in 2018 which included:
continuous auditing and analytics; integrated assurance partnering with management to manage
risk; standardize documentation and communication approach. Mr. Mylen discussed Internal
Audit?s partnering with the finance function to help establish and deveIOp procedures for a
Financial Reporting Disclosure Committee (FRDC). The FRDC is similar to a practice required by
publicly traded companies to help ensure adequate internal controis over ?nancial reporting as part
of their Sarbanes?Oxley Act of 2002 compliance programs. The MetroHealth RDC will
commence in January 2019 during the December 2018 year-end close process and continue to meet
on a quarterly basis. Mr. Mylen mentioned that internal audit conducted risk assessment interviews
in the fourth quarter and met with nearly thirty members of management and the senior leadership
team. Mr. Holloway provided an overview of the 2019 MetroHealth risk universe and risk
matrix. Lastly, Mr. Mylen stated internal audit developed the 2019 Internal Audit
plan which was discussed with the Committee.

David Fiser, Vice President, Chief Information Of?cer, provided a Cyber Security Program update.
Mr. Fiser discussed a new phishing solution called Phishme that replaces an existing product which
will be implemented in December 2018, and fully deployed to all MetroHealth employees in
January 2019. The Phishme solution will allow for testing of all employees automate the
reporting by employees of suspicious emails and provide additional training videos to help bring
greater awareness to the user base. Mr. Fiser also shared with the Committee that a ?rm was
engaged to provide on-going penetration testing within the technology and physical environment.
Mr. Fiser proceeded with providing an update on the recent HIPAA Security and Cyber Maturity
Assessment conducted by KPMG that recommended several areas of opportunity to further increase
the System's security posture. The recommendations will be prioritized and implemented to further
mitigate the risks and continue to strengthen the environment. Lastly, Mr. Fiser provided an update
on Disaster Recovery (DR) and Business Continuity of Operations approach. Mr. Fiser stated the
Continuity of Operations and Business Impact Analysis (BIA) software and services partner was
selected to assist with evaluating all core business processes and supporting information services
applications which will begin December 2018. The DR data center site relocation plan will be
completed by January 2019 and operational in a new site by December 2019. The Lastly, Mr. Fiser
shared that a request for proposal process is currently underway for a hosted/managed Security
Operations Center (SOC).

A motion was made, seconded and passed to move the Committee into Executive Session to discuss
trade secrets and litigation matters. The Committee returned to regular session at 3 :39 pm.

IACTION ITEMS

Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting Minutes
December 12, 2018
Page 3 of 3

A. No items at this time

IV. CONSENT ITEMS

A. A Recommendation for the Continued Engagement of KPMG LLP as the System?s Internal
Audit Consultant

The Committee unanimously approved the recommendation for full Board action.
There being no further business to bring before the Committee, the meeting was adjourned at 3:43 pm.
Respectfuliy submitted,
Craig R1 mond

Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Of?cer

