CUYAHOGA COUNTY BOARD OF HEALTH
AGENDA – February 12, 2018
1. Call to Order.
2. Roll Call.
3. Motion to excuse absent Board Members.
4. Public Comments on Agenda Resolutions Only (three minute maximum).
5. Motion to adjourn to Executive Session to discuss purchase or lease of property.
6. Approval of Resolutions/Motions:
REGULAR ACTIONS OF THE BOARD:
A. RESOLUTION (2017-160) To approve and authorize a ground lease and lease-purchase
agreement and related documents providing for constructing, renovating, furnishing and
equipping improvements to the Board of Health building facilities and authorizing and
approving other related matters (ref. enclosed) (Tabled-December 20, 2017).
7. Public and Staff Comments (three minute maximum).
8. Miscellaneous Business.
9. Motion to adjourn the meeting.

 #6 A

RESOLUTION 2017-160
A RESOLUTION APPROVING AND AUTHORIZING A GROUND
LEASE AND LEASE-PURCHASE AGREEMENT AND RELATED
DOCUMENTS PROVIDING FOR CONSTRUCTING, RENOVATING,
FURNISHING AND EQUIPPING IMPROVEMENTS TO THE BOARD OF
HEALTH BUILDING FACILITIES AND AUTHORIZING AND
APPROVING OTHER RELATED MATTERS.
WHEREAS, this Board has determined to provide for financing to pay costs of
constructing, renovating, furnishing and equipping improvements to its building facilities (the
“Improvements”); and
WHEREAS, it will be necessary for the Board to enter into one or more ground leases,
lease-purchase agreements and other agreements in order to finance the cost of the
Improvements, all in accordance with the laws of the State of Ohio (the “State”), including, but
not limited to, Section 3707.55 of the Revised Code; and
WHEREAS, in order to implement the financing arrangements with respect to the
Improvements, it will be necessary for the Board to take the following actions:
A.
Sign and deliver a ground lease (the “Ground Lease”) under which the Board will
convey to an entity as determined by an authorized officer of the Board (which may include the
Chief Financial Officer of the Board, the President of the Board, the President Pro Tempore of
the Board or the Health Commissioner, and each such officer herein referred to as an
“Authorized Officer”) to be appropriate and in the best interest of the Board to serve in that role
(the “Lessor”), a leasehold interest in the real property and improvements thereon (the “Project
Site”) for a term of not more than five years longer than the term of the related Facilities Lease
described below;
B.
Sign and deliver a lease-purchase agreement (the “Facilities Lease”) under which
the Board (a) will sublease the Project Site and lease the Improvements located on the Project
Site (collectively, with the Project Site, the “Leased Property”) from the Lessor for an Initial
Term and for Renewal Terms (each a “Lease Term”), as defined in the Facilities Lease, upon
appropriations being made by this Board of funds sufficient to enable the Board to pay the Base
Rent, as defined in the Facilities Lease, during the Renewal Terms and (b) will have an
obligation, which will constitute a “public obligation” as defined in Section 133.01 of the
Revised Code, to pay Base Rent during each Lease Term subject to such appropriations;
C.
Approve, if necessary, an assignment of leases (the “Assignment”) between the
Lessor and the Trustee, pursuant to which the Lessor shall assign its interests in a Ground Lease
and the related Facilities Lease to the Trustee;
D.
Approve, if necessary, a trust agreement (the “Trust Agreement”) between the
Lessor and a bank or trust company determined by an Authorized Officer to be in the best

 Resolution 2017-160
December 20, 2017
Page 2

interest and financial advantages of the Board to act in such capacity (the “Trustee”), pursuant to
which (a) the Lessor will direct the Trustee to and the Trustee will issue and sell Certificates of
Participation (the “Certificates”) in the payments of Base Rent to be made by the Board under a
Facilities Lease, which Certificates will constitute “fractionalized interests in public obligations”,
as defined in Section 133.01 of the Revised Code, and (b) proceeds of the sale of the Certificates
will be used to pay the costs of Improvements;
E.
Sign, if necessary, a certificate purchase agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”)
among the original purchaser of the Certificates (the “Original Purchaser”), the Board, and the
Trustee setting forth the purchase price and other terms upon which the Original Purchaser will
purchase the Certificates from the Trustee; and
F.
Sign, if necessary, a placement agent agreement (the “Placement Agreement”)
between the Board and an investment bank or other company determined by an Authorized
Officer to be in the best interest and financial advantages of the Board to act in such capacity (the
“Placement Agent”);
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the members of the Cuyahoga County
District Board of Health, that:
Section 1.
Ground Lease, Facilities Lease and Trust Agreement. The Authorized
Officers identified in Recital A above are each authorized to sign and deliver the Ground Lease
and the Facilities Lease and to signify approval of the Assignment and the Trust Agreement in
form and substance not inconsistent with this Resolution and deemed advisable by such
Authorized Officers such to be conclusively evidenced and determined by the execution thereof.
The Ground Lease, the Facilities Lease, the Assignment and the Trust Agreement are hereby
approved in form and substance not inconsistent with this Resolution and deemed advisable the
Authorized Officer or Officers executing them as shall be conclusively evidenced and
determined by the execution thereof.
Section 2.
Leased Properties. This Board hereby determines that the Leased
Properties are essential to the Board including but not limited to its proper, efficient and
economic operation and the public welfare.
Section 3.

Determination of Facilities Lease Terms and Sale of the Certificates.

(a)
Facilities Lease Terms. Any Authorized Officer is hereby authorized to
determine, having due regard for the best interest of and financial advantages to the Board, (i) the
buildings to be leased pursuant to the Ground Lease and Facilities Lease, (ii) the Lease Term for
the Facilities Lease, the final Renewal Term for which shall end not more than 30 years after the
Commencement Date (as defined in the Facilities Lease) of the Initial Term, (iii) the term for the
Ground Lease, which shall be five years longer than the Lease Term for the related Facilities
Lease, (iv) the prepayment terms for the Facilities Lease, provided that any prepayment premium
shall not exceed 2% of the principal component of the amount prepaid, and (vi) the Base Rent (as
defined in the Facilities Leases) for the Facilities Lease, provided, that: the aggregate principal
components of the Base Rent for the Initial Term and all Renewal Terms for the Facilities Lease

2

 Resolution 2017-160
December 20, 2017
Page 3

shall not exceed $4,800,000; and the weighted average of the aggregate interest components of
the Base Rent for the Initial Term and all Renewal Terms for the Facilities Lease shall not
exceed 6.0% per year.
The Board acknowledges that the principal component of the Facilities Lease shall be
equal to the principal amount of the Certificates (net of any original issue discount) if issued
under the related Trust Agreement and that the principal component of the Facilities Lease shall
be that amount that, together with other funds to be made available for the purpose, shall be
sufficient to pay the cost of the Improvements, including without limitation, the cost of providing
any reserves that the Authorized Officer determines are necessary and appropriate for the
Certificates to be issued on the terms most favorable to the Board as the payor on the public
obligations in which the Certificates constitute fractionalized interests (which determination shall
be confirmed by the Authorized Officer by the signing of the Purchase Agreement and/or
Placement Agreement), and the costs of issuance of the Certificates, and which the Authorized
Officer determines are necessary and reasonable in light of the character of the Certificates
(which determination shall be confirmed by the Authorized Officer by the signing of the
Purchase Agreement and/or the Placement Agreement). The Board further acknowledges that the
payment schedules for any Certificates shall include interest components on the principal amount
thereof that shall be based upon the interest components of the Base Rent payable under the
related Facilities Lease. The Certificates issued under the Trust Agreement may be issued in one
or more series that may differ as to interest rate components, credit enhancement, priority of
payment and other terms. The Base Rent to be payable under and in accordance with the
Facilities Lease during the Initial Term of that Facilities Lease and any Renewal Terms, shall be
an amount sufficient to cover the amount of principal component and interest component of the
outstanding related Certificates of any series that are due and payable during that Initial Term or
Renewal Term, and such Base Rent shall be specified or determined in an exhibit to the related
Facilities Lease; provided, however, that the Board’s payment of Base Rent under the Facilities
Lease is subject to appropriation and certification as provided in the Facilities Lease and nothing
in the Facilities Lease, the related Certificates or the related Trust Agreement constitutes a debt
of the Lessee or a pledge by the Lessee, or an obligation of the Lessee, of any taxes or other
money to the payments due thereunder.
(b)
Purchase Agreement and Placement Agreement. Any Authorized Officer is
authorized to sign and deliver, in the name and on behalf of the Board, a Purchase Agreement
and/or a Placement Agreement, if necessary, in form and substance consistent with this
Resolution, setting forth, with respect to the Facilities Lease, the schedule of Base Rent and the
principal components and interest components thereof, and the costs of issuance of the
Certificates and any reserves for the Certificates. The Purchase Agreement and Placement
Agreement are approved in such forms that are not inconsistent with this Resolution and not
substantially adverse to the Board and as approved by the Authorized Officer signing on behalf
of the Board, all of which shall be conclusively evidenced by the signing thereof or amendments
thereto.
Section 4.

Other Instruments.

3

 Resolution 2017-160
December 20, 2017
Page 4

The proceeds from the sale of any Certificates or proceeds from the Facilities Lease,
except any premium and accrued interest, shall be paid into the proper fund or funds and those
proceeds are appropriated and shall be used for the purpose for which the Certificates are being
issued or Facilities Lease executed. Any portion of those proceeds representing premium and
accrued interest shall be paid into the Bond Retirement Fund.
The Authorized Officers are each hereby authorized to take any and all other actions and
to sign and deliver any and all other instruments, agreements, certificates and documents as may
in their judgment be necessary, desirable, advisable or appropriate in connection with the signing
and delivery of the Ground Lease and the Facilities Lease, the signing and delivery of the
Certificates by the Trustee and the purchase of the Certificates by the Original Purchaser in order
to give effect to the transactions contemplated to be performed on the part of the Board under the
Ground Lease, the Facilities Lease and the Placement Agreement and Purchase Agreement, if
any.
The expenditure of the amounts necessary to pay the financing costs (as defined in
Section 133.01 of the Revised Code) in connection with the Certificates and the Facilities Lease,
to the extent not paid by in accordance with the Purchase Agreement or Placement Agreement, is
authorized and approved, and the Chief Financial Officer or other Authorized Officer is
authorized to provide for the payment of any such amounts and costs from the proceeds of the
Certificates to the extent available and otherwise from any other funds lawfully available that are
appropriated or shall be appropriated for that purpose.

Section 5.
Tax Covenants. Any Authorized Officer having responsibility for
signing the Facilities Lease, is, alone or in conjunction with any of the foregoing or with any
other officer or employee of the Board, authorized to cooperate with the Original Purchaser and
the Trustee by making, on behalf of the Board, such covenants and representations in the
Facilities Lease as are appropriate and necessary so that (a) the Facilities Lease and any related
Certificates will not (i) constitute private activity bonds, arbitrage bonds or hedge bonds under
Sections 141, 148 or 149 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”) or (ii)
be treated other than as obligations to which Section 103 of the Code applies, (b) the interest
components of Base Rent payable under the Facilities Lease and interest on any related
Certificates will not be treated as an item of tax preference for purposes of the federal alternative
minimum tax imposed on certain individuals and corporation, (c) the Board will take or cause to
be taken such actions that may be required of it for the interest components of Base Rent payable
under the Facilities Lease and interest on any related Certificates to be and to remain excluded
from gross income for federal income tax purposes, (d) the Board will not take or authorize to be
taken any actions that would adversely affect that exclusion, and (e) the Board, or persons acting
for it, will, among other acts of compliance, (i) apply or cause the application of the proceeds of
the Certificates or Facilities Lease to the governmental purpose of the borrowing, (ii) restrict the
yield on investment property acquired with those proceeds, (iii) make timely and adequate
payments to the federal government, (iv) maintain books and records and make calculations and
reports and (v) refrain from certain uses of those proceeds, and, as applicable, of property

4

 Resolution 2017-160
December 20, 2017
Page 5

financed with such proceeds, all in such manner and to the extent necessary to assure such
exclusion of that interest under the Code.
Any Authorized Officer of the Board having responsibility for signing of the Facilities
Lease is hereby authorized (a) to make or effect any election, selection, designation, choice,
consent, approval, or waiver on behalf of the Board with respect to the Facilities Lease and the
related Certificates as the Board is permitted to or required to make or give under the federal
income tax laws, including, without limitation thereto, any of the elections provided for in
Section 148(f)(4)(C) of the Code or available under Section 148 of the Code, for the purpose of
assuring, enhancing or protecting favorable tax treatment or status of the Facilities Lease and any
Certificates or the interest components thereof or assisting compliance with requirements for that
purpose, reducing the burden or expense of such compliance, reducing the rebate amount or
payments or penalties, or making payments of special amounts in lieu of making computations to
determine, or paying, excess earnings as rebate, or obviating those amounts or payments, as
determined by that officer, which action shall be in writing and signed by the officer, (b) to take
any and all other actions, make or obtain calculations, make payments, and make or give reports,
covenants and certifications of and on behalf of the Board, as may be appropriate to assure the
Base Rent payable under the exclusion of interest from gross income and the intended tax status
of the interest components of the Facilities Lease and interest on any related Certificates, and (c)
to give one or more appropriate certificates of the Board, for inclusion in the transcript for the
Certificates, setting forth the reasonable expectations of the Board regarding the amount and use
of all the proceeds from the sale of the Certificates, the facts, circumstances and estimates on
which they are based, and other facts and circumstances relevant to the tax treatment of the
interest component of Base Rent payable under the Facilities Lease and the tax status of the
related Certificates.
Section 6.
Severability. Each section of this Resolution and each part of each
section hereof is hereby declared to be independent, and the finding or holding of any section or
part of any section hereof to be invalid or void shall not be deemed or held to affect the validity
of any other section or part of any section of this Resolution.
Section 7.
Retention of Bond Counsel. The legal services of Roetzel & Andress,
LPA, as bond counsel, are hereby retained. The legal services shall be in the nature of legal
advice and recommendations as to the documents and the proceedings in connection with the
issuance and sale of the Certificates and the rendering of the necessary legal opinions upon the
delivery of the Certificates. In rendering those legal services, as an independent contractor and in
an attorney-client relationship, that firm shall not exercise any administrative discretion on
behalf of the Board in the formulation of public policy, expenditure of public funds, enforcement
of laws, rules and regulations of the State, the Board or any other political subdivision, or the
execution of public trusts. That firm shall be paid just and reasonable compensation for those
legal services and shall be reimbursed for the actual out-of-pocket expenses it incurs in rendering
those legal services. The Chief Financial Officer or other appropriate Authorized Officer is
authorized and directed, to the extent they are not paid by the Original Purchaser in accordance
with the Purchase Agreement, to make appropriate certification as to the availability of funds for
those fees and any reimbursement and to issue an appropriate order for their timely payment as
written statements are submitted by that firm.
5

 Resolution 2017-160
December 20, 2017
Page 6

Section 8.
Compliance with Open Meeting Law. This Board finds and determines
that all formal actions of this Board and of any of its committees concerning and relating to the
adoption of this Resolution were taken in open meetings of this Board or of its committees, and
that all deliberations of this Board and of any committees that resulted in those formal actions
were in meetings open to the public in compliance with the law.
Section 9.
Effective Date.
immediately upon its adoption.

This Resolution shall be in full force and effect

Section 10. Emergency Clause. This Resolution is declared to be an emergency
measure necessary to provide for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and welfare of the inhabitants of the Cuyahoga County District Board of Health jurisdictional
area, and for the orderly and timely operation of the Board and for the immediate need for
arranging financing for the Board’s space planning and building renovation project and provided
it receives the affirmative vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all members elected to Board, it shall take
effect and be in force immediately upon its passage, otherwise, it shall take effect and be in force
from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
Passed: ________________, 2018.
First Reading:_________

Second Reading: _________

Vote: Moss ___ yea ___ nay
Wang __ yea __ nay

Gatt ___ yea ___nay

Third Reading: _______

Hall ___ yea ___ nay

Williams __ yea __ nay

__________________________________
Debbie L. Moss
President of Board

Attested by:

___________________________________
Terrence M. Allan, RS, MPH
Health Commissioner
Secretary to Board

2017-160

6

 