GATEWAY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION OF GREATER CLEVELAND
Minutes of a Meeting of the
Board of Trustees
Held on November 18, 2015
3:00 o'clock p.m.
Offices of
Climaco, Wilcox, Peca, Tarantino & Garofoli Co., L.P.A.
Cleveland, Ohio

There being a quorum present, Mr. Offtermatt called the meeting to
order at approximately 3:10 p.m. Board members Timothy Offtermatt,
Matt Carroll and William Reidy were present. Board member Emmanuel
Glover was on speaker phone, but did not participate or vote in the
meeting. Ms. Tracey Nichols was absent.
Also present were Todd
Greathouse, Brian Kelly, and Daniella Nunnally of Gateway, and Dennis
Wilcox, General Counsel, along with his colleague David Cuppage.
Present from the Cleveland Cavaliers were Mozelle Jackson and Antony
Bonavita. William Tarter was present from the public.
The first item of business was approval of the Minutes. Upon motion
by Mr. Reidy, seconded by Mr. Carroll, the Minutes of the August 26,
2015 meeting were unanimously approved.
Next the Board heard public comment. Mr. Tarter asked several
questions respecting the team leases and descriptions of major
capital, and specifically why scoreboards which had previously been
replaced by the teams, were being replaced with sin tax dollars as
major capital items. Secondly, he wanted to understand Gateway’s
total request for sin tax reimbursement from the County.
And
finally, he wanted to know if there were lease discussions with the
Indians to extend their lease beyond 2023.
Mr. Offtermatt spent some time answering Mr. Tarter's questions,
first, specifically about the question of Major Capital obligations
under the lease. He noted that the scoreboard was indeed replaced in
the Arena with private funds, but some public funds were used in 2004
to replace the Ballpark scoreboard.
Secondly, he noted that the
numbers presented to the County for reimbursement were cumulative and
a number of different Minutes of Gateway meetings would need to be
reviewed to understand that. Finally, he acknowledged the Indians
lease did expire in 2023. He was not aware that the Indians were in

 negotiations to extend the lease at this time.
In response to a follow-up question by Mr. Tarter, Mr. Offtermatt
noted the Sin Tax is not part of the County general revenues for
budgetary purposes.
Next, the Chairman’s report was given. Mr. Offtermatt noted that the
County Council approved a resolution authorizing the County to serve
as issuer for up to $65,000,000 of Bonds for Major Capital Repairs at
the Ballpark and Arena, however, he indicated that the final issuance
amount would be closer to $60,000,000. He emphasized this is not
secured by the general credit of the County and is non-recourse to
the County with the County Excise Tax serving as the sole security
for the Bonds.
He reported that the Project Fund will contain revenues which will be
distributed per requests received under the bond documents. The bond
issue is expected to close on December 16 and he noted that a number
of reimbursements for the Cavaliers and Indians for previously
completed projects will be drawn at closing and the remainder for
ongoing Ballpark and Arena Major Capital projects will be reimbursed
through draw requests from Gateway to the Trustee and then proceeds
be delivered to Gateway and then to the contractors or teams as
appropriate. He also reported that there is a potential for future
bonds and that money has been set aside for future project needs.
Mr. Greathouse then gave the Executive Director’s Major Capital
report. He first thanked everyone who has been helping on the many
projects going on, including Major Capital and Alteration projects
and for the quick responses of both staff and outside service
providers.
He first reported on the Quicken Loans Arena Major Capital projects,
including progress on the Command Center Cameras project which was
approved by the Board in the amount of $3,060,000. The final phases
are being completed with the Cavs. The system seems to be functioning
well and there are only a number of small change orders remaining and
he believes that they will be under budget for this project.
Next, he discussed the Arena roof with Whiting Turner, as the
construction manager, and Dave Faller reviewing the Project. So far
there are 4 RFP’s to qualified contractors. The roof system would be
a poured system.
Mr. Offtermatt then asked the question about
whether this project was large enough to need a construction manager
and in response Mr. Greathouse and Mr. Wilcox indicated that the
project is a specialized project that would look for qualified
roofing companies that could handle the project and a construction
manager would be helpful. The bids are due on December 24th and the
work is to be completed by May 24th.
Next, Mr. Greathouse gave a report on new Major Capital requests by
the Cavaliers pursuant to a letter dated October 8, 2015 from the
2

 Cavaliers.
The first item was the request for a replacement of
retractable Arena seating for $3,100,000. Previous quotes had been
given for $2,250,000 plus contingencies.
Mr. Greathouse reported
this needed to be reviewed by Dave Faller at Osborne. The lead time
for replacement was approximately 6 months, so that this item needed
to be ordered by the end of December since the Republican National
Convention will result in a total of 22 rows of seating on the north
and south ends being removed. Because the useful life of the seating
is towards the end, it made more sense to install new seating after
the convention. Mr. Carroll asked about the review of the project and
contingency number and Mr. Offtermatt indicated that we could review
this at the next meeting and consider this item. Mr. Carroll also
asked if Gateway had done its normal review for this project, and Mr.
Offtermatt replied that if we were going to accelerate for the Cavs
and Indians requests, we need to get together with our engineering
consultant, Dave Faller, when we can get back to the Board with an
answer on the Cavaliers’ new request. Mr. Greathouse stated they
will expedite the performance review. The next requested item was a
scoreboard hoist which is being reviewed now. Finally, there is an
HVAC project that would occur after the RNC Convention and will take
additional time to review.
Mr. Offtermatt indicated that there could be a meeting with the Cavs
later, but that there may be approximately $2,500,000 of Excise Tax
left in 2016 after the Excise Tax Bonds are issued and it may be a
few years before another bond issue could be issued by the County
and, therefore, there was a need to prioritize some of these repairs.
Mr. Greathouse concluded that Mr. Faller would be doing an analysis
of the items in the recent requests as soon as possible.
Next, Mr. Greathouse gave a progress report on the approved Major
Capital for the Ballpark. The first item was the scoreboard system.
He indicated that Gateway is close to signed contracts with
Daktronics and Beck and that Gilbane’s addendum for the Phase 2
project was ready for signature as well. Mr. Greathouse indicated
that they were able to negotiate a bigger and better scoreboard under
budget with an $800,000 contingency. There was next a reminder for
County Council follow-up on the scoreboard warranty period which Mr.
Greathouse and Mr. Offtermatt said they would supply to the County
Council.
Mr. Greathouse talked about the Ballpark sound system. This was a
$4,700,000 approved item. They are doing RFP’s now and hope to get
the work done as the season progresses, as some of this can be done
during the season.
He next reviewed the HVAC project. There is a $5,200,000 request and
there are bids for cooling towers and safety valves being proposed.
Then he talked about the concrete resurfacing.
were being prepared for bid.
3

Again, specifications

 He then discussed the security control, which is approximately a
$2,800,000 project with RFP’s being sent.
He then discussed the food and service equipment of approximately
$1,400,000 is out and there is a negotiated agreement with Tri-Mark
to provide this.
Finally, he discussed the high steel, noting that
approximately $2,200,000 and bids were out to 5 vendors.

this

was

Then Mr. Greathouse reported on the Phase 2 Major Capital that the
Indians are doing in connection with the Alteration project and
include certain activities that will be done now to save dollars
later when the Major Capital is completed.
This includes fire
suppression, suite and press box glazing, suite balcony flooring and
HVAC in the suites.
Next, he moved to the new Major Capital request from the Indians,
including $5,000,000 for food service equipment and this includes
plumbing, electrical and structural review.
The other item is
vertical transportation, in particular the outdoor escalators where
certain steps were being replaced. There was a report from Schindler
on the escalator and elevator replacements.
Finally, he discussed lighting foot light candles for the field
lighting, which currently do not meet the Major League standards, but
will be upgraded hopefully through a new LED system which will
include a 10 year warranty.
This is an approximately $1,800,000
project. Matt Carroll then asked regarding the approved items for
Capital Repair.
Mr. Offtermatt then talked about the Phase 2 alterations.
Mr.
Greathouse indicated that these were moving as expected. Mr.
Offtermatt asked about the inclusion numbers, and Daniella Nunnally
reported to the Board that there is approximately [$1,200,000] in the
right field project. The report was almost complete, but the right
field project has not been finally closed and it was agreed that when
the contract is finally closed, a final inclusion report will be
prepared for the Board.
Then Mr. Offtermatt asked Mr. Wilcox to summarize the RNC
negotiations. Mr. Wilcox reported that the parties are close to an
agreement for use of the Common Areas by the RNC for the Convention,
which should cover Gateway costs.
Mr. Kelly then gave the financial reports. He first reviewed the
Gateway operating account which had a balance on October 1st of
$455,612, total receipts of $195,863, and total disbursements of
$193,035. The balance as of October 31st was $158,440.
He then reviewed the Ballpark Capital Account which had a beginning
4

 balance of $30,356 on October 1st, with $128,600 in receipts and
$78,253 of disbursements for an ending balance on October 31st of
$80,703.
Mr. Offtermatt then asked about the real estate values. Mr. Kelly
indicated there were no changes in Gateway’s real estate valuation.
He next moved to the forecast from November 1 through December 31,
2015, showing an opening account of $158,440, revenues expected to be
$349,792 for a total of $508,232, of which $418,733 is expected to be
disbursed, which leaves a balance at year-end of $89,499.
Mr. Kelly then reviewed the Progressive Field Alterations Account
which had total receipts during 2015 of $22,343,467.11 and total
disbursements of $20,316,714.03 for Phase I and $304,837.91 for Phase
II. Summarizing from the beginning of 2014 there had been receipts
of $26,266,756.86 and total disbursements of $24,545,798.49 leaving a
balance at the end of October 2015 of $1,722,208.37.
Next, he reviewed the Progressive Field Major Capital Account which
had receipts in 2015 of $346,709.40, and disbursements for Phase I
Major Capital of $336,909.40, leaving a balance of $10,250.
Next, he reviewed the Quicken Loans Major Capital Account showing
total receipts and disbursements in 2014 of $13,644,727.40. In 2015
receipts and disbursements each were $2,654,493.29. He also noted
certain self-funded alterations by the Cavaliers at Quicken Loans
Arena of $709,342.69.
Mr. Kelly reviewed the proposed 2016 budget which included a
comparison to the 2015 budget which shows approximately a 2.2%
increase over 2015 for both Progressive Field and Quicken Loans
Arena. He also noted that the business improvement assessment is
slightly lower and the property taxes were approximately the same.
He has had discussions with both teams who have approved the budgets.
He next referred to the Ballpark Capital budget which was a total of
$2,414,097 for 2016. There was some discussion about the need to
replace the bollards, although that is not in the budget at this
time.
He then reviewed the Progressive Field inclusion numbers showing 20%
MBE, 9% FBE and 4% DBE.
The Board after further discussion considered resolutions to approve
the annual operating budget and the Indians Capital budget.

5

 Upon motion made by Mr. Reidy, and seconded by Mr. Carroll, the Board
unanimously passed the following resolution.
RESOLUTION NO. 2015-4
REGARDING AUTHORIZATION AND
APPROVAL OF ANNUAL OPERATING BUDGET
FOR 2016
WHEREAS, Gateway Economic Development Corporation of Greater
Cleveland (“Gateway”) has entered into Lease Agreements with The
Cleveland Indians Baseball Company Limited Partnership (“Indians”)
and the Cavaliers Operating Company, LLC (“Cavaliers”) (collectively
the “Lease Agreements”); and
WHEREAS, the Lease Agreements provide for determination of rent
to be paid by each of the Cavaliers and
Indians pursuant to an
annual operating budget approved by Gateway; and
WHEREAS, such budget is to be approved by Gateway by November 15
of the preceding year for the annual budget, or as soon as
practicable thereafter; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Lease Agreements, Gateway has worked
with the Indians and Cavaliers to develop the 2016 annual operating
budget and presented the same to the Board of Trustees; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees wishes to adopt and approve
Gateway’s 2016 annual operating budget.
NOW, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Trustees of Gateway on
behalf of Gateway does hereby authorize and approve Gateway’s annual
operating budget, including for the Cleveland Indians and Cleveland
Cavaliers, as presented and attached hereto as Exhibit A.
BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that the Chairman or Secretary-Treasurer
are and each of them is hereby authorized and empowered for and on
behalf of Gateway in its name to take all actions necessary to carry
out the foregoing budget or to modify the same pursuant to the Lease
Agreements without further action or notification to the Board, which
such officer or officers shall in his, her or their judgment be
deemed necessary, advisable or desirable in connection therewith,
which execution or approval shall constitute the conclusive evidence
of the approval and authorization thereto of Gateway.
________________

6

 After further discussion, upon motion made by Mr. Carroll, and
seconded by Mr. Reidy, the Board unanimously passed the following
resolution.
RESOLUTION NO. 2015-5
REGARDING AUTHORIZATION AND
APPROVAL OF ANNUAL CAPITAL BUDGET
FOR THE CLEVELAND INDIANS FOR 2016
WHEREAS, Gateway Economic Development Corporation of Greater
Cleveland (“Gateway”) has entered into a Lease Agreement with The
Cleveland Indians Baseball Company Limited Partnership (“Indians”)
(the “Lease Agreement”); and
WHEREAS, the Lease Agreement provides for the Indians to perform
capital repairs in the Ballpark on behalf of Gateway; and
WHEREAS, the Indians and Gateway have annually agreed to a
capital repair budget under the Lease to be funded by the Indians and
performed by Gateway and the Indians (the “Budget”); and
WHEREAS, Gateway has worked with the Indians to develop the 2016
annual capital budget and presented the same to the Board of
Trustees; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees wishes to adopt and approve
Gateway’s 2016 annual capital budget with the Indians.
NOW, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Trustees of Gateway on
behalf of Gateway does hereby authorize and approve Gateway’s annual
capital budget with the Indians as presented and attached hereto as
Exhibit A.
BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that the Chairman or Secretary-Treasurer
are and each of them is hereby authorized and empowered for and on
behalf of Gateway in its name to take all actions necessary to carry
out the foregoing budget or to modify the same pursuant to the Lease
Agreement without further action or notification to the Board, which
such officer or officers shall in his, her or their judgment be
deemed necessary, advisable or desirable in connection therewith,
which execution or approval shall constitute the conclusive evidence
of the approval and authorization thereto of Gateway.
_________________
The Board next reviewed the meeting schedule for 2016 and discussed
the possibility of potentially having another meeting to discuss
Major Capital requests in December.
There being no further business before the Board, upon motion by Mr.
7

 Carroll and seconded by Mr. Reidy, the meeting was adjourned at 4:30
p.m.
APPROVED BY:
SECRETARY-TREASURER
_________________________

8

 