THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES

DATE: Wednesday, June 13, 2018
TIME: 2:00 to 4:00 p.m.
PLACE: MetroHealth Medical Center

107, Business Services Building

OMIWITTEE Mr. McDonald, Mr. Schneider and Dr. Silvers

TRUSTEES:

ADDITIONAL Ms. Dee, Ms. Whiting

TRUSTEES:

STAFF: K. Blessinger, A. Boutros, MD, M. Hsu, M. Phillips, C. Richmond, C. Forino Wahl
GUESTS: R. Barre, J. Mylen (KPMG), .T. Croy (Via phone RSM)

Mr. Schneider called the meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee to order at 2:00 p.1n. Please
note that minutes are written to conform to the printed agenda and are not necessarily in the order of
discussion.

I.

II.

The minutes of the regular Audit and Compliance Committee meeting held on March 21, 2018
were approved as presented.

INFORDVIATION ITEMS

Mr. Schneider introduced Cheryl orino Wahl, Senior Vice President, Chief Ethics and Compliance
Of?cer who provided an update of the second quarter compliance program activities. Ms. Wahl
stated the Compliance Program goals for 2018 will focus on people, process and technology. She
reviewed the progress and described changes that have occurred in each of these areas. In addition,
the department is rebuilding and expanding the ethics and compliance team, some of the general
goals include building skills and expertise of the team and defining roles and responsibilities. Also,
a new compliance hotline service is being implemented. Ms. Wahl mentioned that the restructure
of the MetroHealth Cempliance Committee is proceeding well. Each department representative has
established a monitoring and educational goal that address regulatory risk. This effort has been
coordinated with Internal Audit to improve internal controls, mitigate risk and integrate compliance
monitoring throughout operational areas. Ms. Wahl also noted the Ethics and Compliance
Department has developed a new Code of Conduct, ?This is Who We Are, Our Culture of Ethics and
Compliance?. As part of developing the Code, the Ethics and Compliance team identi?ed
applicable policies and revised policies to ensure MetroHealth policies were in alignment with the
new Code. Every employee will receive a copy at the 2018 annual compliance training.

Jim Mylen, Partner with KPMG Advisory Services, serves as MetroHealth?s Director of Intemal
Audit and provided the committee with the Internal Audit update for the second quarter of 2018.
Mr. Mylen introduced Robin Barre KPMG, Director, who joined the Internal Audit team. Mr.
Mylen and Ms. Barre provided an update of the 2018 Internal Audit Plan and an oveiview of the
accomplishments and goals for the second quarter. Mr. Mylen stated there were ?ve audits
completed during the quarter and eleven audits are currently in process based on the internal audit

Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting Minutes
June 13, 2018
Page 2 of 3

IV.

plan. Analytics continue to be incorporated within the internal audit procedures which provides the
ability to evaluate the whole population, rather than only a sample. Mr. Mylen shared two
examples of how analytics are being used to monitor risk related to segregation of duties within the
?nancial systems and the payroll process. Mr. Mylen also mentioned that the Joint Risk
Assessment meetings have recently been completed with the Ethics and Compliance team. Ms.
Barre stated that an internal audit landing page has been developed for the MetroHealth Information
Village to provide updates to employees relative to the internal audit department and procedures
which will go-live in the third quarter. Internal audit has partnered with management to identify
and develop a process to evaluate risks related to third-party service providers. The process will
include an evaluation of controls in place to govern third parties that have access to ?nancially
relevant data, Protected Health Information and Personally Identi?able Information

Craig Richmond, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Of?cer introduced John Croy, RSM
Senior Director and National Leader of Construction Advisory Services, who provided an update
on the construction cost review services currently being performed by RSM. Mr. Croy indicated
that the Critical Care Pavilion project is in the close-out stage as in ?nal invoice in pencil draw
stage (draft invoice). The ?nal payment is being submitted and will be reviewed to address
subcontractor close outs. In addition, the Transformation Project construction cost review activities
continue to include reviews of the third parties participating in the project and an interim
on-site review of the parking garage was conducted.

Mr. Richmond introduced Michael Hsu, Senior Director Information Technology Operations, who
provided a Cyber Security Program update focused on the on-going importance of a cyber security
program and culture. Mr. Hsu indicated the most recent email phishing tests showed an increase in
the number of failed users. Additional training and education is being identi?ed to help reduce the
failure rate and bring greater awareness to the user base. Mr. Hsu mentioned that KPMG has been
engaged to perform a HIPAA Risk and Cyber Program Risk Assessment beginning in July to
evaluate risks associated with HIPAA information and the maturity of our Cyber program.
Recommendations will be provided to further mitigate risks and continue to strengthen the control
environment.

A motion was made, seconded and passed to move the Committee into Executive Session to discuss
trade secrets and litigation matters. The Committee returned to regular session at 4:06 pm.
NON-CONSENT ITEMS

A. No items at this time

CONSENT ITEMS

A. A Recommendation to The MetroHealth System Board of Trustees for the Approval of the Code
of Conduct

The Committee unanimously approved the recommendation for full Board action.

Audit and Compliance Committee Meeting Minutes
June 13, 2018
Page 3 of 3

There being no further business to bring before the Committee, the meeting was adjourned at 4: 10 pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Craig Richmond

Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Of?cer

