GATEWAY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION OF GREATER CLEVELAND

Minutes of a Meeting of the
Board of Trustees

Held on may 13, 2015
3:00 o'clock p.m.

Offices of
Climaoo, Wilcox, Peca, Tarantino Garofoli Co., L.P.A.
Cleveland, Ohio

There being a quorum present, Mr. Offtermatt called the meeting to
order at 3:05 p.m. The following Board members were present: Timothy
Offtermatt, Matt Carroll, William Reidy and Emmanuel Glover. Tracey
Nichols was absent. Also present were Todd Greathonse, Brian Kelly,
Daniella Nunnally of Gateway and Dennis Wilcox, General Counsel, as
well as Dennis Lehman, Joseph Znidarsic, Jim Folk, Andrew Miller and
Alex King from the Cleveland Indians, David Faller, Consultant from
Osborn Engineering, and Jay Miller from Crains Cleveland Business.

The Minutes were deferred and there was no public comment.

Mr. Offtermatt then summarized the meeting schedule for May. Today?s
meeting is primarily to review, discuss and ask questions about Major
Capital Repair requests from the Cleveland Indians. The Board will
then have a inseting' 2 weeks later on May 27th to clarify any
outstanding issues and to vote on making a recommendation to the
County of approval or disapproval of such Capital Repair requests.
He summarized that the Indians have made a number of requests and
described the_process by which Gateway reviews and forwards this on
to the County for consideration of payment from the sin tax.

Todd.l3reathouse then gave an 'update on the Republican. National
Convention. he reported to the Board that there was a previous
meeting with Jon Pinney and others working with the host Committee,
and Gateway was awaiting a proposed agreement from. the Host
Committee. Among other issues are Gateway?s use of its offices during
the Convention, which may not be possible, and use of the garage for
potential office space for the Convention. Mr. Wilcox then also
noted that a Gateway Special Event Permit Application was sent to Mr.
Pinney for use of the Common Area. In response to a question about
whether ea decision inni been reds (hi the use (If the garage for
offices, it was agreed that it had not.

Then, Mr. Greathouse continued with the Executive Director?s report
to discuss the Gateway Plaza watch parties for the Cavaliers and
reported to the Board on the safety and other considerations being
taken into account. In response to a question from Mr. Offtermatt,

Mr. Greathouse confirmed that no ticket was needed to enter this
event, however, all alcohol was contained within a single area.

Mr. Greathouse then gave a report on Common Area maintenance. The
staff is making repairs and bringing the Common Areas up to date
especially after the wear and tear after the long winter.

Next, Greathouse reported (Mi Arena Major? Capital_ items and
summarized various contracts. He first reviewed. the QTV ?video
production contract with GTG showing approximately $461,000 still
owed. Also, the contract had a $292,828 favorable balance. He next
reviewed the Parsons sound system contract, showing $75,000 owed and
a favorable balance of $134,068 and the Key general contractors for
QTV video which showed $127,213 still being owed.

Next, he discussed the ANC summary for the scoreboard, showing an
approximately $25,000 favorable balance. He then discussed the hoist
system for the new scoreboard. He reported the Cavaliers wanted a new
hoist system at a cost of $500,000?600,000 and that they wanted to
apply the $553,000 in cost savings from other contracts approved to
pay for this system.

Mr. Faller then reported to the Board that no information on a new
hoist system. was submitted. by the Cavaliers in their initial
scoreboard request to Gateway and none was planned for or

anticipated. In addition, the Cavs have maxed out on the contract
for the scoreboard and any savings have been obtained from other
contracts. He confirmed that a new hoist would cost approximately

$550,000?600,000. He also noted that when the Cave prepared their
bid documents they did not anticipate or include a hoist system as
part of the specifications. Mr. Offtermatt noted that Gateway had
closed out the other contracts with savings, but did not feel, since
they were closed out, that savings should be utilized for a new
request with respect to the scoreboardi Mr. Wilcox read the
resolution the Board had passed indicating the Board?s approval of
the scoreboard as presented. Mr. Offtermatt then indicated it would
not be appropriate to use savings and move the money around for a new
project. He indicated to Mr. Greathouse that the Cavaliers should
make a new request or amend their original request to include a new
hoist system. Mr. Faller also indicated that the weight of the new
scoreboard from original specifications would not require a
replacement, but because of changes to the scoreboard, the present
hoist system is at maximum_capacity and the Cavaliers would like to
replace it as a result.

Mr. Greathouse then reviewed the Arena Security Command Center and
Security Cameras. A bid package would be expected shortly with an
having been approved on 4w29?2015, with a walk through on Swi?
2015 and proposals to be received on 5w26m2015 with a starting date
of July 2015. Mr. Offtermatt asked if this was being coordinated
with the RNC and Mr. Greathouse indicated.that would need to be
worked out.

Next, Mr. Greathouse reported on the Arena roof. Whiting Turner, the
Cavaliers contractor, through Robert Dye, has prepared specifications
for the roof systems, which is being prepared to release for bid.
Upon questions, Mr. Faller indicated that roof replacement bids would
be received in 3 weeks, following bid issued. He indicated the work
would include 3 high sections this calendar year and the remainder of
the roof next year. Mr. Reidy questioned the life expectancy of the
Arena roofs and Mr. Faller indicated the existing roofs had
approximately 20 year life expectancies and since these are the
original roofs, that useful life had. been exceeded. He noted
original roof warranties are normally only 20 years.

The Board next heard from Daniella Nunnally with respect to inclusion
results. She is developing a new format and re~charting the work and

the numbers. She is also working through exclusion for specialty
items and will have up to date numbers from.the Cavaliers at the next
meeting. In response to a question, Ms. Nunnally noted that the

original goals are 15% MBE, 7% FEE and 8% SEE and indicated they were
under now for the Arena, but for Progressive Field those
numbers were looking good, but noted it is still early. They are
still working on the Arena numbers.

Next, Mr. Offtermatt asked Mr. Greathouse to review previous Major
Capital for Progressive Field which the Board had recommended for
approval. Mr. Greathouse noted there was an original request of $4.2
million for the sound system. The Indians have that project on hold,
except for $97,000 spent for the new Gate construction. It was
also noted that the concrete resurfacing had commenced for only
$134,000 and the contract for high steel of $2,184,000 was on hold at
this point, as well as the full concrete resurfacing.

Next, the Board.:moved to new Capital Repair requests from. the
Cleveland Indians. Mr. Faller presented 51 Power Point which is
attached to these Minutes as Exhibit A. He noted that certain items
were withdrawn by the Indians as not a high priority. The first item
withdrawn was the replacement of suite furniture. The next item he
reviewed was the replacement of food service equipment. This was
reduced to $2,750,000. Mr. Feller noted that most of
these items were at the end of their useful life.

Then he discussed the scoreboard system and reported that this was
being used for far longer than the expected equipment life and was
not compatible with new technology. The last time the video board
was replaced was in 2004. Mr. Offtermatt asked about the
requirements in the Lease and Mr. Wilcox and Mr. Znidarsic confirmed
that the standard for replacing an obsolete component, such as the
scoreboard, is that the replacement will most likely be used in at
least 75% of Major League ballparks within the 5 years of
obsolescence. This was changed from the original lease
which had a specific one?time replacement provision. It was noted
that the scoreboard has been well maintained and that the Indians

3

have paid for upkeep of the current scoreboard. It is currently 18
out of 30 Major League ballparks in.size and no new structure would
be needed for the replacement scoreboard.

Mr. Offtermatt asked Mr. Faller out of the 15,000 square foot total
for the new scoreboard, how much was signage and Mr. Faller indicated
the present scoreboard has 10,000 square feet of signage which would
be replaced in its entirety by the new video board. Mr. Offtermatt
asked about this video display being used in 75% of the ballparks.
Mr. Faller' responded. that his analysis from 20l5 indicates' the
average area of the scoreboard for the top 25% is 7,763 square feet
and the new scoreboard would obviously exceed that number. Mr.
Carroll then asked for the cost per square foot and Mr. Baller
indicated that the cost for square foot was lower with the larger
scoreboard, $600 per square foot vs. $980 per square foot. Mr.
Feller speculated that the scoreboard structure being sufficient to
hold the entire structure would reduce the square footage cost, based
on. the fact the $980 square foot value likely contained. costs
associated with new structure. Mr. Offtermatt then questioned about
replacing the existing scoreboard with one large video board and not
consider the fixed signage to stay in place and asked are we not
simply replacing signage with video display.

Mr. Faller then indicated he examined the structure for the
scoreboard and it was in good condition although some painting and
cosmetic work was done, some painting within the structure would be
required at some point to protect the structure steel. The coatings
are not failing, but they are no longer offering full protection to
the steel and cosmetic surface corrosion is beginning to occur.

Mr. Carroll then asked why is this so much larger than the other
scoreboards, and Mr. Znidarsic indicated the obsolescence of fixed
signage and other ballparks doing larger scoreboards is a factor. He
also noted it would fit the current scoreboard structure. Mr. Lehman
then added that the scoreboard structure was the largest at the time
Progressive Field was open. Also, because of the infinity boards
requiring no edge, they wanted to use the entirety of the structure.
He indicated this was consistent with what the modern fan is looking
for. Mr. Offtermatt then asked if the Indians had a 5,500 square foot
scoreboard. currently' replaced.wwith a1 new? scoreboard cm: variable
signage, is that the same thing as it exists today. In addition
there were 4 other side displays presented for $1,036,500 which was
deducted. the cost being' presented. This project. moves the
graphics computers and servers to a controlled environment where they
can be kept in a controlled environment away from dust and moisture
they are currently exposed to in the open air rooms.

Next, Mr. Faller reviewed the mechanical and HVAC systems for the
Ballpark. Mr. Offtermatt asked what the useful life was of these
systems and Mr. Faller indicated it was 20 years. He said some units
can last 20?25 years, but this was ?within_ the target level_ of
replacement and because of its use in an outdoor park where the

system is not running all the time, the start?up and shut down of the
system creates more wear and tear. This project is estimated at
$5,000,000 for chillers, cooling towers and contingency. Other HVAC
repairs would be deferred for 3?5 years and expected to be done in
the 2019 season. The deferred costs are valued at $l0,000,000 in 2015
dollars.

Mr. Faller then discussed the suite and Press Box fire suppression
systems which were removed from the request as being under $500,000
and, thus not Major Capital.

Then he discussed the Suites and Press Box glazing. He indicated the
sliding windows were vulnerable in any system of this type and the
Indians would defer a number of these suite windows because it would
be better to spend the money when there are suite renovations. As a
result, the Indians will be revisiting some of the items and these
items may be staged as others for sometime before 20l9. He did
note that the Press Box and broadcast areas had a lot of water coming
in and so that this area would be addressed and that the request has
been reduced by 50% to about $1,500,000.

He next discussed suite corridors and balcony flooring which is the
original carpeting. He indicated that may also be staged and has
been withdrawn at this time. He noted that new materials (that were
tested in the Ballpark previously) had been developed that would be
much more resilient, easier to clean and repair and have a longer
life.

Then, he discussed the access controls and surveillance system, some
of which the Indians have been using for 20 years. Useful life is in
the 10 year range. The Indians have exceeded the useful life for
this equipment and this is similar to the security and access control
equipment that is going into the Arena at the Cavalier?s request.
Given the current estimate including design, it :Ms a $2,856,000
project.

Finally, Mr. Feller noted the next steps which would include coming
back to the Board in the next meeting to determine whether to pass
these on to the County with a recommendation of approval of the
Board.

Dennis Lehman then noted on behalf of the Indians that costs to
repair some of these items like the scoreboard are to the point of
being catastrophic and the repairs are very expensive and he hoped
that this could be moved along quickly. Bill Reidy asked about other
ballparks and what their condition is and Mr. Offtermatt offered that
it depends on the leases and also whether the team and the public
have specific terms on capital. He noted that the Indians put in
about $2~3 million of capital annually which is in his estimate more
than most middle market teams. Mr. Znidarsic then noted that although
the Ballpark is 21 years old, we still consider it new, and there is
a need for considerable investment because of the extended useful

lives of many improvements.

Mr. Greathouse then gave a report on the alterations in the Ballpark
and noting they were only going through punch list items which should
be concluded the end of the month.

At this point Mr. Kelly gave his financial report. He first reported
on the Quickens Loan Arena management contracts and noted $412,000
was being self?funded for the Arena and that $13,644,727 had been
spent out of the Major Capital accounts for the Arena. Mr.
Offtermatt interjected that the auditor?s would be looking at these
numbers and Mr. Kelly concurred.

Next, he reviewed the Brogressive Field alterations showing total
disbursements and receipts of about $14,898,000. The total would be
$18,000,000 when completed. Mr. Offtermatt asked if there would be
follow through. and inclusion, and. he indicated. there ?would 
Finally, he noted that the Progressive Field Major Capital included
$97,000.

Then Mr. Kelly gave the financial reports. He first reviewed the
operating account which showed a balance as of April 1St of
approximately 878,000, total receipts of approximately $289,000 and
total disbursements of approximately $221,000, for 53 total cash
balance on April 30th of $146,365. The Ballpark account had started
with a balance of about $123,500 with about $303,000 in receipts and
$353,000 in disbursements for an ending balance of $154,000.

He then reviewed the 90 day forecast for May through July which
included a beginning balance of over $146,000, receipts of about
$1,490,000, a total estimated. revenues of $1,637,182 and
disbursements of $1,626,589 for an estimated operating balance of
$110,593. He noted that a number of taxes would be paid in July
totaling $833,000.

Next, Mr. Kelly informed the Board of the on?going audit activities
which commenced about 1. 1/2 weeks ago. He noted that they are
reviewing the capital expenditures and Mr. Offtermatt asked when the
estimated time for the audit meeting would be and_he thought some
time June to mid?July. Mr. Reidy asked if the statement was going to
be broken down to separate operating and capital and Mr. Kelly
indicated ii: would be anxi that Major Capital would 1x3 reflected
separately in the records.

Finally, upon motion made by Mr. Carroll, seconded by Mr. Glover, the
Board unanimously adopted the Minutes of the last meeting.

The next meeting is May 27, 2015.

Upon motion made by Mr. Carroll, seconded by Mr. Reidy, and the Board
unanimously adjourned the meeting at 5:00 p.m.

APPROVED BY:





   

     

