DATE:

TIME:

COMMITTEE
TRUSTEES:

STAFF:

ABSENT:

THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
JOINT MEETING OF QUALITY 8: SAFETY AND
PATIENT EXPERIENCE

August 28, 2019

10:00 am.

Dr. Silvers, Mr. McDonald, Ms. Whiting

Dr. Boulanger, Dr. Watts, Mr. Kaufmann, Mr. Stern, Mr. Sukalac, Ms. Kiedio, Dr.
Golob, Dr. Chehade, Dr. Werner, Ms. Goerndt, Ms. Morgan, Ms. Kline, Ms.
Weston, Ms. McBride, Ms. Dee

Dr. Boutros, Ms. Platten, Mr. Moss, Mr. Hurwitz, Dr. Mercer, Mr. Gutridge, Ms.
Svoboda, Ms. Hamm, Dr. Nemer, Mr. Monnolly, Ms. Anderson, Mr. Hairston

Dr. Silvers called the regularjoint meeting of the Quality Safety and Patient Experience Committees to
order at 10:11 am.

i. Approval of Minutes - May 8, 2019

The minutes of the May 8, 2019 joint Quality Safety and Patient Experience Committees
were approved as presented.

Dr. Watts announced that Dr. Michelle Nemer wili be the new Medical Director for Patient
Experience. Dr. Nemer will help expand our setting in Ambulatory. She also sees 95% of
patients who speak Spanish and will help set up MyChart for Spanish speaking patients. No
other health system provides this.

Dr. Golob shared 3 Catch Story regarding an Emergency Room nurse treating a patient with
high blood pressure. He retrieved two vials of medicine that look similar from the
refrigerator. He reaiized that one vial would have stop the patient from breathing. A SER
was placed, and'change has been implemented to separate these medications in addition to
bar scan coding. This was a great catch and it helped improve patient care.

II. 

A. Failure Mode Effect Analysis Selection Mr. Kaufmann

 

The Failure Mode Effect Anaiysis is structured to identify and address
potential problems, or failures, and their resulting effects on the system before an
adverse event occurs. This is a ioint Commission requirement every 18 months. Prior
projects have included prevention of surgical fires, DVT prevention in

surgical patients and prevention of work place violence. Mr. Kaufmann is now
requesting the committee?s guidance in selecting the next FMEA project.

Option 1: Variation in Medication Room Standards and Management

0 Standardize organization of medication rooms

0 Standardize required products/medications

0 Establish good cleaning processes and responsible party: floors, pyxis, countertops,
black buckets, med prep space, Silent Knight Pill Crushers, refrigerators/freezers

0 Re-evaluate medication process at transfer and discharge

- Ensure appropriate storage/labeling and security of medications

- Meet requirements for appropriate disposal of medications

Option 2: Process Variation in Sterile Compounding Areas

- Standardize ordering process

0 Establish a standard operating procedure

- Standardize the required PPE

- Meet requirements for competency and other required testing
0 Meet requirements for performing aseptic technique

I Standardize cleaning process to meet requirements

After discussion with committee it was decided that Option 1 would be a better
opportunity.

System Goals Performance Mr. Kaufmann

Mr. Kaufmann presented the System Composite Goals for Adult and Pediatric
Ambulatory Care and C. diff infections. Overall everything is good. C. diff is low because
we have worked extensively on cleaning rooms twice and changed to a new standard of
how to test for C. diff. Mr. Kaufmann also stated that the flu vaccine is now available.

CMS Payment Programs Mr. Kaufmann

Mr- Kaufmann discussed Value Based Purchasing and Hospital Readmission Reduction
Programs but stated there are several CMS programs available. These programs have
certain amounts of money that they withhold. We have had significant improvement.
The penalty system works on the ?scal year and access is based on performance. This is
the first time since 2013 that we will not be penalized, so the hard work is paying off.
Also, the Patient Safety Score makes it transparent to the staff.

Patient Experience System Goal Performance Ms. Goerndt

Ms. Goerndt stated that we continue to perform at stretch performance. Performance
is at 90% or better for the outpatient clinics but the express clinics feel they are rushed.
This gives us an opportunity to target these areas and improve along with surveys that
are sent to patients to provide additional feedback from their visit. Leadership rounding
also allows us the feedback we need to remove barriers and improve patient care.

E. Patient Experience Regulatory Reporting Program Ms. Goerndt
Starting with discharges in October 2019, CMS will remove domain ?Communication
About Pain.? Hospitals can continue asking pain and discomfort questions in the non-
regulatorv surveys. Communication about pain is a strong determinant of overail
patient experience.
ill. ITEMS
None

IV. CONSENT ITEMS

None

There being no further business to come before the committees, the meeting was adjourned at 11:33 am.

Respectfuily,

J.B. Silvers, 
Board of Trustees

