Summit County Opiate Task Force
Key Stakeholders Quarterly Meeting
Summit County Public Health Auditorium
1867 W. Market St. Suite A, Akron, OH

MEETING NOTES 6/12/19
ATTENDEES:
55 Community Stakeholders were in attendance.
MEETING MATERIALS:
The following meeting materials were distributed: Agenda; Data Dashboard; various agency
handouts and event fliers.
GENERAL UPDATES:
China Darrington, Opiate & Addiction Task Force Project Coordinator, welcomed everyone to the
meeting.
•

Introduction and Overview – Ms. Darrington reviewed the mission of the Summit County
Opiate Task Force, and its six Subcommittees, which will report out individually.

•

Drug Safe Hudson Task Force Report –Jamie Messenger reported on:
o Working on outreach to physicians to educate on Deterra bags and distribution to
patients
o Targeting where bags are most useful.
o Working with realtors to use in advance of open houses to clean out medicine cabinets
o Local dentists are being contacted also.
o “Juuling” is a big problem and has become popular with students as young as 11 years
old.
o Resource Fair – 17 agencies were represented at the fair.
o Very favorable response in community.

•

Green Drug Task Force Report – Bob Bender reported:
o 5 of 9 hotels have agreed to put Narcan kits in their hotels.
o Faith communities in Green hosted a second annual “Drug Awareness Sunday” on May 5th.
Green Drug Task Force worked with pastors/faith leaders to develop messages regarding
drug abuse and recovery, with information tables available after services.
o Working to engage businesses in the community in more ways.
o Celebration of Quick Response Team (QRT) in Green.
o Opioid Awareness Week is Sept. 16-20.

Mission: The Summit County Opiate Task Force is a group of key individuals and organizations committed to
reducing the tragic consequences of opiate abuse in Summit County through education, collaboration, and the wise
use of available resources.

 Greg McNeil, Cover2 Resources, reported on the Naloxofind app that has been developed to
assist in locating Naloxone “NaloxBox” and carriers to get naloxone to first responders.
o
o
o

Green Mayor, Gerard Neugebauer, and Donna Skoda, SCPH, have agreed to support
the NaloxBox and Project DAWN and support installation at Akron Canton Airport.
Meetings July 9, 11 and 18 in Green, with launch event on July 25th to include a concert
with the Shawn Runyon Band at the outdoor amphitheater.
Naloxonefind website/app: www.naloxofind.com

•

United Way/Summa First Step Program– Dave Rich reported:
o First Step update: 85% of those able to start Medication Assisted Treatment (MAT),
do. In April 92% turn up rate and rate of follow-up.
o 280 patients started on MAT (86%)
o ED utilization of total evaluation showed a steady update in the June, 2018 to April,
2019 time period
o Discussed the number of people being identified as having an SUD issue
o Pilot transportation program is underway; current price per ride is $20.57, so more
affordable options are being considered to control costs
o 207 clients connected to Recovery Coaches in ED and afterwards
o Catholic Charities is coordinating services; 102 patients seen.
o Age gap overlaps reported in 25-39 year old group: 26-47 yrs in First Step; 25-39 in
needle exchange program.
o Meeting in August on funding in 2020; RFPs will be issued in the Fall to begin in April
2020.
o As of August 6, will have soft roll out at Akron City Hospital. Point of Contact to be
provided, Barberton ED contact is Jamie McKinnon.

•

Summit County Public Health – Angela Kaiser, MPH, reporting:
o Thus far in 2019 Project DAWN issued 567 Narcan kits, with 174 reported reversals
(determined by number of kits replaced)
o Syringe Exchange program distributed 97,000 syringes, with 66,000 collected thus
far in 2019.
o Second site opened at Second Chance Village. Began 6/4, with 17 people coming in.
Building relationships with clients.
o Syringe Exchange program also distributed 4,000 Fentanyl test strips in the
counseling department and at other community events.
o OATF Harm Reduction committee being formed; sign-up sheet available; meetings to
begin in mid-July.
o On topic of Narcan, have been transferring to other agencies in the community:
Summit Psychological can distribute.

•

DATA DASHBOARD
Jerry Craig, Executive Director of the County of Summit ADM Board presented the quarterly
Data Dashboard (see attached)*. Will be updated to reflect numbers reported by SCPH.
o Increase in Overdose deaths – many are unintentional
o Seeing favorable trend in reduction of prescriptions being written
o To date in 2019, 3,688 pounds have been disposed of through Drug Take Back days and
local D.U.M.P. boxes. We are on pace to beat 2018 numbers.

Mission: The Summit County Opiate Task Force is a group of key individuals and organizations committed to
reducing the tragic consequences of opiate abuse in Summit County through education, collaboration, and the wise
use of available resources.

 o
o
o

Functionally, NO wait list for detox services, with wait days for residential care for
females at 4 to 6 days; and 11 days for males.
Helpline Report: 447 appointments scheduled to date with average of 6.1 days wait
(Mode: 1 day wait)
Mr. Craig acknowledged and welcomed local officials.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
• Policy & Advocacy Committee – Ms. Darrington reported there is still need for a Committee
Chair. Please contact her if interested.
•

Family Supports – Ms. Darrington reported that our magnet was well received in the
community and the committee is continuing to work on their resource page. SCOATF will
look into reordering the magnet with an updated calendar for continued distribution.

•

Public Awareness – Chrissy Gashash reported that the Public Awareness committee had met
on March 15th:
o ADM Board, Summit County Public Health and The University of Akron conference,
“Addictions & Opiates: What’s New, What’s Next” is on June 14th for clinical and general
public. Over 370 individuals have registered. Videos will be available after the event.
o Appreciation Week for First Responders held in April. Events included Rubber Ducks
game, special recognition bags and QRT lunch with new QRT pins distributed.
o Summit County Community Partnership is bringing together all coalitions in Summit
County and surrounding counties to share ways we can help each other. (Summit County
Community Partnership shares the Deterra Bags.)
o Nice connection with Green/Hudson/ADM through the Task Force.
o Working on updates for Speakers’ Bureau – for people to be retrained.

•

Criminal Justice – Chief Jack Davis, Cuyahoga Falls, reported several meetings had been held
with information shared within agencies as to trends being seen in law enforcement and
what they are doing. QRT teams are now distributing DAWN kits.

•

Healthcare Committee – Dr. Garry Thrasher from Oriana House:
o Dr. Thrasher acknowledged the dedication of everyone on the Task Force
o Increase in overdose deaths noted by Summit County Medical Examiner’s office
o Have seen significant reduction in prescriptions – Doctors are checking the OARRS report
before prescribing.
o Detox has increased due to methamphetamines. Patients are coming in sicker (comorbidity), with more psychiatric needs.
o Looking at trying to improve efficiency in getting from ED to detox. Barriers include
awareness and transportation.
o Research is showing that there may be an increase in deaths associated with medical
marijuana. Hoping research shows there is a role for medical marijuana; hoping for
proof.
o One role of the committee is to educate medical providers regarding addiction.
o 6th Annual medical conference for providers to educate about Mental Health and SUD
will be held on November 9th. One way to help patients is to help providers.

Mission: The Summit County Opiate Task Force is a group of key individuals and organizations committed to
reducing the tragic consequences of opiate abuse in Summit County through education, collaboration, and the wise
use of available resources.

 •

Youth and Young Adults – Ms. Darrington reported.
o Committee has had a few young people attend. Hoping to entice more to get involved.
o Will be making up a 365 day resource calendar; partnering with various agencies and
businesses for free or low-cost events each day. Hoping to be out by last quarter of this
year.
o Introduced one of the younger members.

GENERAL ANNOUNCEMENTS & UPCOMING EVENTS
• Mr. Craig reported on the local CARES Award Nominees, noting that all Summit County
nominations came from the community rather than from the committee. Nominees were:
Tanisha Common, CDCA; Chief Joe Natko, Akron Fire Department; Nicole Minor, Oriana
House; Reba McCray, ARC Recovery Services.
• Opiates and Addiction Conference on June 14th – Registration is closed; 370 registrations.
• Task Force is forming a new committee for Harm Reduction. If interested in joining, please
contact Ms. Darrington.
•

Reba McCray announced that Recovery Fest is scheduled for August 9th.

•

Lorna McLain from DEA 360 announced that the agency is going live in Cuyahoga, Summit
and Lorain on July 17th. Great program with support to local programs. Funding available
from $5,000 to $125,000. Features healthy environment for youth. New website
wakeupcleveland.com to launch soon. Will be sponsoring a Red Ribbon month. Handouts
available. Will be supportive of what OATF has going on. Looking at case by case situations.

•

Todd Eury – New Seasons – He has visited 67 counties in 22 states in the past year and is very
impressed with the SCOATF and the research he has done about it. Applauded the Task
Force for its efforts!

•

Lucky Tisch reported on the success of the ADM Recovery challenge and noted several
upcoming races: Buzzard Beach, July 20th – supports people in recovery; and KJ’s 5K,
October 5th, supporting Portage Path Behavioral Health.

Ms. Darrington thanked members for their continued support.
Meeting adjourned at 5:25 p.m.
NEXT OATF MEETING DATE: September 10, 2019 – 4:00 p.m.

Mission: The Summit County Opiate Task Force is a group of key individuals and organizations committed to
reducing the tragic consequences of opiate abuse in Summit County through education, collaboration, and the wise
use of available resources.

 