          

American Legion American Veterans Disabled American Veterans Veterans ofI-?orcign Wars Vietnam Veterans of America
MEL BAIIER FRANK POCCI CHRISTOPHER GRAU CLAYTON E. UZELL BOB POTTS
COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER

Cuyahoga County

JON REISS 
Veterans Servrce 
Ph: 216.698.2600 0 Fax: 216.698.2650
Email: vscmail@cuyahogacounty.us
1849 Prospect Avenue 0 Suite 150 0 Cleveland, OH 44115

MINUTES
May 1, 2019 9:30 a.m.

PRESENT: Clay Uzell, President
Mel Baher, Vice President
Christopher Grau, Secretary
Frank Pocci, Commissioner
Bob Potts, Commissioner
on Reiss, Executive Director
Mary Kitko, Executive Secretary
Brian Gutkoski, Asst. County Prosecutor

EXCUSED: None
VISITORS: William Blackie, Attorney
PURPOSE: GENERAL MEETING

The meeting was called to order by President Clay Uzell followed by the Pledge of Allegiance.

A motion was made by Mel Baher and seconded by Bob Potts to dispense with the reading of the Consent
Agenda and to accept the agenda with the necessary corrections and/or additions. (All Commissioners

have a copy of the minutes.)
AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

COMMISSIONERS REPORTS:
Christopher Grau DAV
0 April 3rd ?1 attended the public meeting.
0 April 4111 I provided a referral to Clermont County VSC Director Franklin Morrow for Alexander
Shure, USA. As a result, he was able to receive all of his missing pay.
0 April 10th I attended the Appeals meeting.
0 April 16th I recused myself from the JVC Lakewood/Rocky River meeting due to an ongoing
personnel matter at the VSC.
0 April 17?'1 I attended the public meeting held at VFW Post 1056 in Euclid.
0 April 18?h attended DAV Chapter 108 meeting.
0 April 26?h participated in a Memorial Day Ceremony planning meeting.

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886? Internet 0 

Frank Pocci AMVETS

- I completed the ?nancial report for Post 80 for March of 2019.

The Honor Guard continues to serve funeral honor duties at the Ohio Western Reserve National
Cemetery.

0 The AMVETS Post 80 will hold their annual dinner to honor the Honor Guard on May 3rd.

0 I advised on the eligibility for the honor ?ight now being available to Vietnam Vets.

I advised anyone who is, or knows a Vietnam vet, that the vet could be eligible for blue water
contaminant exposure and to be sure to ?le a claim in case Blue Water is approved by the VA.
Other Activities:

I During April I attended all of the scheduled meetings at the 

I I participated in the outreach meeting during April.

I I attended the Italian American War Veterans meeting and gave my report. The next
meeting will be held on May 

I I attended the state department meeting for the Italian American War Vets in Lorain, Ohio
where participation in the National convention to be held in Syracuse, New York was
discussed. A state convention will be held at Post 1 in Lorain on June 

I I presented two families of deceased veterans with ?ag cases. The families were very
appreciative and I was invited to a widow?s home to view how she had displayed the case
with the ?ag on top of a cabinet.

I I helped a veteran get into the VA hospital as he was running out of insurance; he is now
being treated at Wade Park. I also told him that, if necessary on a long term basis, he may
be interested in the Veterans home in Sandusky.

I I advised another veteran who is an AMVETS member and apply
to get enrolled in the VA system that may be bene?cial to him in the future.

Bob Potts VVA

0 April 3rd I attended the open public meeting.

0 April 4th stopped by the CBOC to visit with our but both doors were closed. In front of
Bill?s office was a vet wanting to talk to Bill. I asked ifI could help and we sat down to discuss
her problem and discussed other bene?ts she may qualify for with the VA and the 

- April 4th I attended the VVA Chapter 249 membership meeting.

0 April 6th attended the American Legion Post 572 spaghetti dinner and fundraiser.

0 April 9th I attended a Meet and Greet with the new Director of the Ohio Department of Veteran
Services Deborah Ashenhurst.

- April 10th - I attended the appeals meeting.

0 April 17th - I attended the outreach open public meeting at VFW Post 1056 in Euclid.

0 April 18th While on a visit to the new Menards Home Center several people approached me to
thank me for my service and, also, two veterans stopped by talk with me about VA bene?ts.

0 April 23rd attended an event with a speaker from the VVA Speakers Bureau at Normandy High

SchooL

April 24?h - I attended the appeals meeting.

April 30?h the end of the Vietnam War.

May The VVA Speakers Bureau will be speaking at North Royalton High School.
May 16?h The VVA Speakers Bureau will be speaking at Rocky River High School.

Mel Baher American Legion
I attended all scheduled meetings of the during the month of April 2019. Following is a
report of my activities outside of the Cuyahoga County Veterans Service Commission for the
month of April 2019.

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886? Internet 0 

0 Wednesday, April 3rd I attended the American Legion 131]] District Council meeting held at
American Legion Post 572, in Parma, Ohio. The meeting began at 7:30 pm. I presented the
executive board approved ?nancial reports for February 2019, as District Finance Of?cer.

0 Thursday, April 11th I attended the American Legion Post 91 membership meeting. The
meeting began at 7:00 pm. and I presented the current membership report, as Post 1St Vice
Commander.

0 Monday, April 22nd I attended the American Legion 13th District Executive board meeting, held
at American Legion Post 572, in Parma, Ohio. The meeting began at 7:30 pm. I presented the
March 2019 ?nance report for executive board approval, as District Finance Of?cer.

0 Thursday, April 25th I attended the American Legion Post 91 executive board meeting at 7:00
pm. I presented an updated membership report, as Post 151 Vice Commander. Post 91 has
achieved its 2019 membership quota and all-time high for its 23rd consecutive year.

Clay Uzell VFW

- April 3rd I attended the Open Public meeting.

0 April 9?'1 ODVS Director Debra Ashenhurst visited the and had an informative
discussion with Commissioners and Executive Director. She was then given a tour of the facility.

0 April 10th - I attended the Level Appeals meeting.

0 April 12?h I stopped for a visit with employees after an appointment at the Parma
CBOC.

0 April 13?h I attended the VFW District 7 testimonial for Commander Robertson and President
Householder held at Solon VFW Post 1853 and enjoyed a great steak cookout.

0 April 15th I attended the VFW Post 7536 meeting. Election of of?cers was held. All chairs
were ?lled and I will be Post Commander again.

0 April 17th - I attended the open public outreach meeting held at Euclid VFW Post 1056.
The meeting was well attended and veteran ID cards were issued.

0 April 22"d I attended funeral services for VFW Auxiliary member Eileen Geordt at DiCicco
Funeral Home. Both Auxiliary and Post members participated.

0 April 24th - I attended the Level Appeals meeting.

0 April 27?h I attended the State Auxiliary President Charlotte Swogger-Lopes
Testimonial Banquet. The event was held at the Quality Inn, Pittsburg, North New Kensington,
Pa. Itwas a great time.

I referred one client to the for hearing aids and made four hospital visits.

OLD BUSINESS:

The Executive Director provided board members with the 2020 Budget for their review.

A motion was made by Bob Potts and seconded by Mel Baher to adopt the 2020 Budget with
recommended corrections.

AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

The new schedule is making it possible to serve veterans who are unable to visit the during the
old business hours. The Executive Director will continue to provide statistics to compare the number of
clients seen with the new schedule available in relation to the number of clients for the same time period
on the old schedule. The Board will make a decision about whether or not to adopt the new schedule
permanently in the coming months.

Overtime opportunities will be available to all employees, including the Outreach Coordinator, at the
Executive Director?s discretion. Statistics will be provided to the Board in the future.

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886? Internet I 

NEW BUSINESS:
A motion was made by Mel Baher and seconded by Frank Pocci to retain Bill Blackie as legal counsel to

advise on collective bargaining matters.
AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

The main of?ce building is up for sale. The Executive Director met with a potential buyer to discuss
proposed changes should the sale go through.

County spending limits have changed. The spending limit requiring a resolution has been raised from
$1,000 to $5,000 and the spending limit requiring an RFP has been raised from $24, 999 to $49,999.

The opportunity for overtime may be utilized to cover the satellite of?ces for call?offs and scheduled time
off.

GOOD OF THE ORDER:
Frank Pocci would like new magnetic name tags for outreach events.

Chris Grau inquired about the VSC participating in the Rocky River Memorial Day parade. The
Executive Director will contact the Outreach Coordinator. 3,700 ?ags will be placed on graves at the
Rocky River Cemetery.

Clay Uzell will be participating in Memorial Day services at Lakeview Cemetery. Wreaths will be laid by
Commissioner Uzell, and fellow post members, for the different wars in which they served.

EXECUTIVE SESSION:

A motion was made by Mel Baher and seconded by Chris Grau to go in to Executive Session to discuss
employment, discipline and/or dismissal of a public employee and collective bargaining matters.
AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried. (10:44 am.)

The Board came out of Executive Session and returned to the regular order of business at 1 1:22 am. In
Executive Session personnel and bargaining unit matters were discussed.

With no further business, a motion was made by Bob Potts and seconded by Frank Pocci to adjourn the

meeting at 11:23 am.
AYES: Baher, Grau, Pocci, Potts, Uzell. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

Cla zell, President is 

CONTACT INFORMATION
Requests for Financial Assistance/
Filing claims with the Dept. of

Veterans? Affairs/Memorial Affairs: Charlene Amos, Service Of?cer Mgr. (216-698-3831)
Melinda Halliburton, Service Of?ce Mgr. (216-698-2639)
Finance Dept.: Open
Social Work Dept: Terry Walker, Social Worker/Case Mgmt. (216-698-2379)
Executive Director: Jon Reiss (216?698?261 1)
Commissioners: Mary Kitko, Secretary to the Board (216-698?265 1)

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886? Internet 0 

