THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
INCLUSION & DIVERSITY COMMITTEE MEETING MINUTES
Date:
Time:
Place:
Chair:
Trustees:
Present:

Wednesday, February 14, 2018
2:00pm – 4:00pm
Board Room – K107
Ms. Whiting
Ms. Dee, Mr. McDonald, Mr. Moss
Dr. Boutros, Mr. Stern, Ms. Platten, Ms. Delp, Ms. Negrón-McDaniel, Mr. Hodges, Ms. S.
Johnson, Ms. Johnson-Hall, Mr. Jones, Mr. Kaufmann, Dr. Kea, Ms. Diaz, Ms. Lining, Mr.
Martucci, Dr. Misak, Mr. Ruiz
MINUTES

The meeting was called to order by Ms. Whiting at 2:05pm.
1.

The minutes of the October 25, 2017 meeting were reviewed and approved.

2.

Ms. Negrón-McDaniel presented the Office of Inclusion and Diversity (I&D) Report.
Approval of the updated Inclusion and Diversity Definition
Updates to the Inclusion and Diversity Strategic Plan
o Goals
➢ Providing Culturally Competent and Equitable Care
➢ Recruitment and Retention (Leadership Composition, Physician Composition)
➢ Inclusive Organization and Engagement
➢ Training and Development
➢ Supplier Diversity (Purchasing and Contracting, and Campus Transformation Workforce)
2017 in Review
o Operationalizing Inclusion and Diversity Strategy with Leadership Engagement
➢ Integrating and operationalizing I&D goals
➢ Emphasis on corporate inclusion and diversity goals
o Providing Culturally Competent Care: Integrating the CLAS (Culturally and Linguistically
Appropriate Services) Standards within Equity of Care
➢ Collect Diversity Data: Race, Ethnicity, and Language (Real) training for all new employees
with patient registration duties
➢ Reflect and Respect Diversity: In recruitment and retention efforts, training and development,
employee engagement and development efforts, and in organizational culture
➢ Foster Cultural Competence: all new employees receive inclusion and diversity orientation
during hospital orientation; current employees complete annual required learning through online
1

 learning system, and all have opportunities to learn more about inclusion and diversity-related
topics
o Inclusion and Diversity Interventions
➢ Increase in the number and type of concerns received and managed
➢ Types of Concerns/Complaints
➢ Employee to Employee; Employee to Patient/Patient to Employee; Leader to
Employee/Leader to Leader
➢ Interventions included: Coaching; 1:1 Sessions; Values Orientations; Consulting
o Inclusive Leadership
➢ Inclusive Leadership framework was introduced to leaders that attended the Best in Class
leadership program. 277 leaders attended, from manager level and up
➢ Implement quarterly sessions in 2018
o 2017 Employee Survey – 4,000 employees participated in the survey
➢ Survey results:
➢ 82% agree/strongly agree that MetroHealth understands and respect differences in employee
gender, race, age, religion, and other characteristics
➢ 89% believe in MetroHealth’s Mission
2018 Initiatives
➢ Focus areas
➢ Leadership Engagement: Coaching leaders on I&D issues
➢ Communicating the Strategy: Update of internal and external communication platforms
➢ Synergize Health Equity Work: Health equity focus in Quality Improvement Initiatives
➢ Tools: Create and disseminate Diversity Topic Kits, including guidance on pertinent I&D
topics
3.

Dr. Misak, Mr. Kaufmann, and Ms. Diaz presented Health Equity.
Dr. Misak presented a completed analysis of patient experience surveys focused on patient’s
communication with physicians, nurses, and staff. There are differences noted in patient experience scores
between demographic groups based on race, ethnicity and language
➢ 2017 Overview
➢ Total number of surveys collected between Jan. – Sept. 2017: 91, 164
➢ Surveys conducted in 5 languages besides English (Spanish, Arabic, Russian, Vietnamese,
and Chinese)
Mr. Kaufmann presented Center for Quality and I&D Plan.
o REal (Race, Ethnicity, and Language) Partnership
➢ Partnering with Inclusion and Diversity, Quality, Population Health and DORA
➢ Implementation to quality assurance
➢ Develop more specific data
o Equitable Care Measurement
➢ Develop process specific metrics
➢ Target population for interventions
o Increased Analysis
▪ 2018 Patient Safety and Quality Goals
2

 ▪ Focus on organizational priorities- MSSP ACO population
Ms. Diaz presented Health Equity Initiatives for 2018.
Health Equity
o Taking action to accelerate progress on Health Equity
▪ Increasing the collection and use of race, ethnicity, language preference and other social and
demographic data
▪ Increasing cultural competency training
▪ Increasing diversity in leadership and governance
▪ Improve and strengthen community partnerships
o Health Equity Focus
▪ Health Equity Collaborative;
▪ REal data analysis to assess variations in clinical outcomes and resource utilization
▪ Real analysis to inform strategic and outreach planning
▪ Health Equity Conference
4.

Mr. Jones presented Community Business Enterprise.
o Presented Campus Transformation Q4 2017
▪ A total of seven (7) firms are involved: HGA; Bostwick (local); Hammes; and Moody Nolan
(diverse), /Donley, Osborn, and HKS
▪ New Parking Garage total- diverse/inclusive: at 93.84%
▪ Grand total % diverse/inclusive: at 81.22%

5.

Mr. Martucci presented Supplier Diversity Spend Trends for Q4 2016 – Q4 2017.
o Baseline and Local/Regional spend trend percentages ranged between 29% - 26%
o Baseline and Diverse spend trends fluctuated slightly, and ended at 6% in the fourth quarter for
2017
o The total for Diverse Vendors (Minority Business, Small Business, and Women’s Business
Enterprises) percentages increased from 7% - 10% between Q4 2016 and Q4 2017
o Supplier Diversity events (5 total for 2017): “How to do Business with MetroHealth” and
networking events
➢ MetroHealth Partners: I&D, Supply Chain, Campus Transformation, Marketing and
Communications; and Food Services
➢ Well attended: Over 150 attendees to the various sessions
➢ Vendors: Minority Business Enterprise; Women’s Business Enterprise, LGBT (Lesbian,
Gay, Bisexual and Transgender); and VBE (Veteran Business Enterprise)

6.

Mr. Hodges and Ms. Johnson presented Talent Acquisition and Retention Programs.
2017 Inclusive Candidate Metrics – Management/Physician/Combo: Interviewed/Hired
o Exceeded the diversity percentage benchmark (35%) for race/ethnicity & gender
o Percentages for race/ethnicity only: for management hired is above the benchmark; other
categories are at or slightly below the benchmark
Ms. Johnson presented Best in Class – Inspiring Quality Connextions (BIC Q˟) Mentoring Program
3

 o BIC Q˟ focuses on leadership development, coaching, mentoring, developing top talent within the
organization at all levels.
➢ Mentoring Program Outline
▪ Executives: Helps achieve organizational goals, and retain top talent
▪ Leaders: Self-improvement, and expectations for next level
▪ Emerging Talent: Branding yourself, and skill mastering
▪ Early Career: Networking, and building confidence
▪ Workforce Development: Job preparedness, and community partnerships
Meeting adjourned at 3:55pm
The next BOT meeting is scheduled May 9, 2018
Respectfully submitted by Francine Johnson-Hall

4

 