MINUTES
NORTHEAST OHIO REGIONAL SEWER DISTRICT
BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING
July 18, 2019

A Regular Meeting ofthe Board of Trustees ofthe Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District was
called to order at 12:35 pm. by Darnell Brown.
I. Roll Call
PRESENT: D. Brown
R. Sulik
R. Stefanik
T. DeGeeter
J. Ciaccia
J. Bacci
S. Dumas
The Secretary informed the President that a quorum was in attendance.

II. Approval of Minutes

MOTION - Mayor Bacci moved and Mr. Sulik seconded to approve the Minutes ol?the June 20,
2019, Board Meeting. Without objection, the motion carried unanimously.

Election and Installation of Of?cers

Mr. Brown asked for the report on the election of of?cers for the 2019/2020 term.

MOTION - Mayor Bacci moved and Ms. Dumas seconded to appoint Mr. Brown as Board
President, Mr. Sulik as Vice-President, and Mayor DeGeeter as Secretary of the Board of Trustees.

Without objection, the motion carried unanimously.

Eric Luckage, Chief Legal Of?cer General Counsel, administered the Oath of Office to
Mr. Brown, Mr. Sulik and Mayor DeGeeter.

IV. Public Session

There were no items.

V. Chief Executive Of?cer?s Report

CEO Kyle Dreyfuss-Wells provided a recap of the River Reborn events celebrating the 50 years

since the Cuyahoga River last caught ?re that occurred throughout the month of June. On June
22"" a joint press conference and Towpath Trail groundbreaking was held. In attendance at this

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

July 18, 2019

Page 2 of21

event were local, state and national officials crediting not only the District, but all of the
partnerships in northeast Ohio that have led to the success that we have today. The anniversary
made local and national news. Also, the District?s River Reborn logo won the American lnhouse
Graphic Design award. The logo went up against 6,000 entries and only 15% were recognized.
Ms. Dreyfuss-Wells thanked the Board and District staff for their participation in the many
anniversary events, with a special thanks to the SSMO team who did an outstanding job at the
Pump Station.

Next, Ms. Dreyfuss-Wells noted that on June Frank Greenland, Director of Watershed
Programs, participated in a Water Research Foundation (WRF) brie?ng for over 70 congressional
staff in DC on harmful algal blooms. The event was sponsored by WRF with support from the
of?ces of Congresswoman Kaptur and Congressman Joyce. The agenda focused on communities
dealing with events and working on predicting, monitoring and controlling those events. Mr.
Greenland?s presentation focused on these issues in regional water bodies. Other speakers included
Alex Margevicius, Commissioner of the Cleveland Division of Water, Peter Fernandez, Public
Works Director for the City of Salem, Oregon, and Dr. Lauren Weinrich, Senior Scientist at
American Water.

Mr. Greenland said the event was well-attended. He said he talked about the Cleveland situation
and the measures the District has taken, and continues to take, in order to reduce phosphorus.
Mr. Greenland said they highlighted CSO control, enhancements at wastewater treatment plants
and the regional stormwater management program (RSMP). He said he also touched on episodic
local I-IAB issues even though Maumee was primarily the focus with the big algal bloom issue. He
pointed out there was an issue about a week ago, but the toxin levels were below public health
standards and it was gone in one day. With the hot weather predicted for the upcoming weekend,
conditions are ripe for a potential algal bloom, but the District will continue to sample, analyze
and inform where appropriate.

Ms. Dreyfuss-Wells noted that this month the District began an introduction to construction course
in collaboration with the Urban League of Greater Cleveland. The course is a joint effort across
District Departments focusing on working with the Urban League to promote construction careers
as part of the District?s continued effort to diversify projects and its workforce. The Work Now
program is a series of 20 modules from July 8?11 to August There was a tour of Southerly as
well as a tour of the Nine-mile site. Constance I-Iaqq, Director of Administration and External
Affairs, talked to participants about the District?s work and the keys to job success. The District
is also working in partnership with the Construction Employers Association. In addition to
Ms. Haqq?s participation, Ms. Dreyfuss-Wells highlighted Doug Gabriel, Deputy Director of
Engineering and Construction, and Tracy Phelps, Deputy Director of Operation and Maintenance.
for their work with the construction people on this great program and partnership with the Urban
League.

Ms. Dreyfuss-Wells stated that the District was recognized by the Greater Cleveland Community
Shares for Campaign of the Year. District staff have participated and donated to various charities
through this organization for many years and that is a great ongoing effort.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

July 18, 2019

Page 3 of21

VI. Action Items
Authorization to Advertise

Resolution No. 171-19 Authorization to publish notice calling for
bids, in accordance with Ohio Revised Code
Chapter 6119, for the purchase of four utility
trucks for use at District facilities with an
anticipated expenditure of $300,000.00.

Resolution No. 172-19 Authorization to publish notice calling for
bids, in accordance with Ohio Revised Code
Chapter 6119, for the Southerly WWTC l-ire
Safety, Code and Building Improvements
project with an anticipated expenditure of
$900,000.00.

MOTION Mr. Ciaccia moved and Mayor Stefanik seconded to adopt Resolution Nos. 171-19
and 172-19. Without objection, the motion carried unanimously.

Authorization to Issue Request for Proposals (RFP)

Resolution No. 173-19 Authorization to issue an RFP, either jointly
with the City of Cleveland or for the District
only, for the procurement of electricity for a
one, two or three year period, in accordance
with Ohio Revised Code Chapter 61 19, for the
Southerly Wastewater Treatment Plant, GJ 
and outlying facilities and City accounts, if
any, as determined necessary by the City, with
the option to purchase electricity cooperatively
with the City, and authorization for the Chief
Executive Of?cer to enter into a contract with
the highest-ranked supplier and execute any
documents necessary to secure electricity
pricing favorable to the District without
additional Board approval.

Resolution No. 174-19 Authorization to issue an RFP, in accordance
with Ohio Revised Code Chapter 153, for the
services of a Curtailment Services Provider
and equipment installation under the
Curtailment Service Provider and Demand
Response Services project.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

July 18, 2019
Page 4 

Resolution No. 175-19 Authorization to Issue an RFP, in accordance
with Ohio Revised Code Chapter 6119, for
assessment, documentation, testing and
implementation of new incident response and
disaster recovery processes under the IT
Response and Recovery project.

Resolution No. 176-19 Authorization to issue an RFP, in accordance

with Ohio Revised Code Chapter 153, for
Specialty Tunnel Testing and Construction
Inspection Services.

MOTION - Mr. Sulik moved and Ms. Dumas seconded to adopt Resolution Nos. 173?19 through
176-19. After the following discussion, without objection, the motion carried unanimously.

Referencing Resolution No. 176-19, Mr. Brown asked for a brief explanation on the specialty
tunnel testing services referenced in the resolution and the status of the current contract. Devona
Marshall, Director of Engineering and Construction, stated there is currently a five (5)-year
contract with a $5 million budget scheduled to end its term at the end of this year. The Funding
associated with that contract is also near the end of spending all the money. This is a request to go
out for an additional testing contract to continue these types of services for the upcoming micro-
tunneling and tunneling projects that are going on over the next five (5) years as part of Project
Clean Lake. The services are speci?cally to support the construction of the Westerly Storage
Tunnel and the Shoreline Tunnel. There are similar testing-type contracts for more general
construction projects, but these contracts contain a lot of underground work and therefore are a
specialty in terms of the geo-technieal component that the normal testing ?rms do not have. Not
as many ?rms will be quali?ed to do this type of work. The last time a bid went out there were
two or three ?rms that did bid on the project. Ms. Marshall is hopeful there will be at least one or
two ?rms to choose from, but it is more ofa specialty than the typical inspection work.

Mr. Brown asked if there was some analysis review of the performance of the contractors that are
currently under contract so that there is an indication of how well they perform at the District?s
goal/timeline, etc. Ms. Marshall indicated that she is not aware of any ongoing of?cial documented
performance of the contractors currently under contract, but as part of the evaluation process, past
performance is one of the criteria used to evaluate potential contractors. Performance of
consultants is continually evaluated and taken into consideration when the next project is
evaluated.

Mr. Brown added that at the City of Cleveland there are similar issues, but he is always interested
in making sure contractors who come to do business with the City understand that not only is the
lowest and best a concern, but what a contractor does during the life of a contract is also a concern.

Ms. Marshall added that to amend her previous statement about evaluations, performance
evaluations are done on the professional services contracts. She is just not sure if the evaluations

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

July 18, 2019

Page 5 

are done on the testing and inspection ones.

Authorization to Purchase

Resolution No. 177?19

Resolution No. 178-19

Resolution No. 179-19

Authorization to purchase spare parts, as needed, to
repair and maintain Sierra Monitor Corporation gas
detection and monitoring equipment for use at all
Wastewater Treatment Plants and the EMSC
facility from sole source vendor Sierra Monitor
Corporation in a total amount not-to-exceed
$150,000.00.

Authorization to purchase Allen Bradley Plant
Automation replacement parts, as needed, for use in
plant automation process repair at all Wastewater
Treatment Plants and the EMSC facility from sole
source vendor, Rexel, Inc. in a total amount not-to-
exceed $300,000.00.

Authorization to purchase the annual hardware
procurement of desktops, laptops, and peripheral
hardware from Dell Marketing, L.P. under the State
of Ohio Cooperative Purchasing Program in a total
amount not-to-exceed $288,463.30.

MOTION Mayor Stefanik moved and Mr. Ciaccia seconded to adopt Resolution Nos. 177-19
through 179-19. Without objection, the motion carried unanimously.

Authorization to Enter into Agreement

Resolution No. 180-19

Resolution No. 181-19

Authorization to enter into a one-year
agreement with Diversi?ed Infrastructure
Services, Inc. for grit disposal at the Southerly
Wastewater Treatment Plant in an amount not-
to-exceed $100,000.00 to be paid to the
District.

Authorization to enter into agreement with
Kurtz Bros., Inc. to perform the Bene?cial
Reuse of Grit Pilot project in an amount not-
to-exceed $73,870.00.

BOA RD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

July18,2019

Page?onl

Resolution No. 182?19 Authorization to enter into agreement with
Access Sciences for a District-wide
requirements analysis under the Enterprise
Content Management Requirements Analysis
project in an amount not-to-exceed
$98,630.00.

Resolution No. 183-19 Authorization to enter into agreement with

Black Veatch for the District-Wide Solids
Handling Study in an amount not-to-exceed
$582,540.00.

MOTION Mr. Sulik moved and Mayor Stefanik seconded to adopt Resolution Nos. 180-19
through 183-19. After the following discussion, without objection, the motion carried
unanimously.

Mr. Ciaccia asked if Resolution No. 180-19 is revenue to the District. Ms. Dreyl'uss-Wells
indicated that it is. Mr. Ciaccia also asked about Resolution No. 181-19. He inquired as to how
the strong odor of grit will be addressed as part of this project.

Mr. Greenland stated that odor was part of the discussion. Mr. Greenland stated that this pilot study
is very similar to the incinerator ash study. It is looking at the bene?cial re-use of grit. He then
introduced Robin Halperin, Regulatory Compliance Manager of Watershed Programs, to discuss
the details ofthe pilot study.

Ms. Halperin stated that the purpose of the pilot project is to ?gure out: il? grit can be cleaned,
where it would be cleaned, and what it takes to get rid of the odors so that the material can be
reused. The idea is that Kurtz would take some of the material From District facilities to its site and
test it. The methods oftesting the grit include baking it, heating it and doing a thermal treatment
to get rid of the odors, bacteria and viruses; washing it; or another form of biological cleaning.
Kurtz is going to experiment with the material for a viable solution and report on what problems
there might be associated with that solution. The material has some great uses because it is mostly
sand and gravel and ?ne particles that can be used near topsoil for structural ?ll or even concrete.
The big issue is what will it take to clean it and what are the problems that need to be managed.

Mayor Bacci asked if there is estimated yardage on the amount of grit and what amount Kurtz is
going to take. Ms. Halperin indicated that the District generates about 7,000 tons of grit per year
from all three plants. Mayor Bacci asked what amount Kurtz is going to take to try and de-odor.
Ms. Halperin was not sure of the exact amount of grit they will test but Kurtz will take the grit
from our property to their property to analyze it.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

July 18, 2019

Page 7 of2i

Authorization ofContract Modi?cation

Resolution No. 184-19

Resolution No. 185-19

Authorizing final adjusting change order for
Contract No. 16005281 with Shook
Construction for the Southerly First Stage
Aeration Tank and Return Sludge Pump
Station Improvements project by decreasing
the contract amount by $2,021,249.23, thereby
bringing the total contract amount to
$13,026,750.79.

Authorizing final adjusting change order For
Contract No. 16003296 with Independence
Excavating, Inc. for the Superior Stones Canal
CSO Improvements project by decreasing the
contract amount by $657,219.17, thereby
bringing the total contract amount to
$17,525,080.83.

MOTION Mayor Bacci moved and Mayor Stefanik seconded to adopt Resolution Nos. 184-19
and 185-19. After the following discussion, without objection, the motion carried unanimously.

Mr. Brown asked for an explanation on Resolution 184-19. Ms. Marshall stated with the return of
the $2 million the majority ofthat amount is the general allowance at about $1.2 million as well
as a lot of the speci?c allowances that were not used on the project. Only $55,000 of the $1.3
million general allowance was used. She stated that there was some minor return on the base scope
of work. There was some planned electrical wire replacement that once the District got in the ?eld
and tested it, it was discovered that it did not need to be replaced.

Authorization to Amend Agreement

Resolution No. 186-19

Authorization to Amend Contract No.
18004622 with Kurtz Bros., Inc. for the
Biosolids Incinerator Ash Management
Program by increasing the negotiated revenue
sharing rate to the District from $1.00 to $1.60
per ton of bene?cially used ash for year two of
the agreement.

MOTION Mr. Ciaccia moved and Mayor Bacci seconded to adopt Resolution No. 186-19.
Without objection, the motion carried unanimously.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

July 18, 2019

Page 8 oi'21

Authorization to Grant Credit

Resolution No. 187-19

Resolution No. 188-19

Authorizing the District to issue a credit
adjustment in the amount of $31,921.24
against outstanding sewer charges on
NEORSD account number ending in 0003 for
Khaled Saleh at 4501 Lee Road, Cleveland.

Authorizing the District to issue a credit
adjustment in the amount of $44,531.20
against outstanding sewer charges on
NEORSD account number ending in 0000 for
Anthony . Lombardo at 5820 May?eld Road,
May?eld Heights.

MOTION - Mayor Stefanik moved and Ms. Dumas seconded to adopt Resolution Nos. 187-19
and 188-19. Without objection, the motion carried unanimously.

Propertv Related Transaction

Resolution No. 189-19

Resolution No. 190-19

Authorizing the District to acquire two parcels
in fee simple located at 12508 Erwin Avenue
in the City of Cleveland, and known as PPNS
020-10-150 and 020-10-151, owned by the
Cuyahoga County Land Reutilization
Corporation, necessary for the implementation
of the Big Creek Chevy Branch Stream
Stabilization in the City of Cleveland project
with total consideration of$1.00.

Authorization to acquire one parcel in fee
simple, located at 9186 North Bedford Road in
the City of Macedonia, and known as Summit
County PPN 33-02530, owned by Thomas and
Catherine Loya, necessary for the construction
and maintenance of the Indian Creek SWMP
Project Area Flooding
project and to enter into a lease agreement with
the Loyas with total consideration of
$168,000.00 plus closing costs.

MOTION Mayor Bacci moved and Mr. Sulik seconded to adopt Resolution Nos. 189-19 and
190-19. After the following discussion, without objection, the motion carried unanimously.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

July 18, 2019

Page 9 of2l

Mr. Brown requested further explanation on Resolution No. 190-19. Mr. Greenland stated that
Indian Creek was studied in the Cuyahoga South master plan which was recently wrapped up.
Indian Creek has a number ofmajor ?ooding and erosion issues particularly in the Bedfordr'Ledge
project area. The District has recommendations to alleviate the situation. The property which is
the subject of this Resolution is right in the heart of the most acute ?ooding along Bedford and
Ledge.

Similar issues are the Erwin Avenue purchase. This is the Chevy Creek basin area where there are
major flooding issues. The District has big projects forthcoming to alleviate those issues.

VII. Information Items
1. Program Management Status Report and Update June 2019

Ms. Marshall provided the mid-year update on the Capital Improvement Program for 2019.
Engineering and Construction has 97 active contracts covering 79 different projects with a value
ofjust over $1.16 billion. That ?gure includes $871 million of the $1.16 billion in construction
and $854 million ofthe $1.16 billion focused in the collection system most ofwltich is associated
with implementation of C80 control plan as required under the consent decree.

During 2019, six request for proposals were issued and four professional services contracts were
awarded in the total amount of $4.6 million. Of note, three of the four professional services
contracts were actually design/build contracts. However, the previously mentioned request for
proposals and the resulting requests for contract awards that will be coming to the Board in the
near future are the more traditional 

Ms. Marshall advised that Engineering and Construction has five awarded construction contracts
totaling $1 1.8 million through mid-year 2019. The biggest item is the Easterly and Westerly Low-
Voltage Project which is a progressive design-build for a guaranteed maximum price of $9.6
million. Eight construction contracts were closed out.

Looking ahead to the remainder of 2019, there are seven planned requests for proposals and seven
professional service awards with a dollar amount of $45.2 million. Two projects are associated
with the Automation Program Management efforts. The District will be awarding the design of the
Easterly and Southerly PLC replacement job as well as the collection system PLC replacement
job. Between those two projects the total is about $30 million in design services.

Engineering and Construction has eight planned construction awards in the estimated amount of
$27.7 million. There are nine construction close-outs planned, including the Dugway Storage
Tunnel which is scheduled to achieve substantial completion in late summerfearly fall and close
out by the end of the year.

Cash ?ow ended the month ofJune at 81 percent, which was below the goal of 85 percent; staff is
optimistic that the ultimate goal of 85 percent will be met by year?s end.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

July 18, 2019

Page 10 of21

The goal around the Business Opportunity Program (BOP) is on any construction contract that
closes in the given year and, to date, eight construction contracts have closed with the final costs
of $47.25 million and the associated BOP participation was $15.95 million with final BOP
participation at 33.76 percent, which well exceeded the goal of 16.44 percent.

Looking at planning level KPls, the first is around the CIP annual validation and prioritization
process that is scheduled to kick off later this month or next. Ms. Marshall advised that in 2019,
there are six consent decree compliance reporting and performance milestones that are required to
be met. The District has met two of the six consent decree requirements and of the remaining four,
three are scheduled the month.

Looking at design level KPIs, all of the KPIs are being met. Of note, is the second KPI around
value engineering. The goal was set at $15 million this year in identifying savings on the Capital
Improvement Program. To date, $57.5 million in savings is projected. All of this is around the
Shoreline Consolidation Sewer Project. The District is procuring design services for this project;
however, under the Shoreline Tunnel Design, the District does have updated flow monitoring and
model evaluation that did identify the ability to reduce the size of this consolidation sewer,
shortening the overall length as well as the diameter using capacity within the existing system.
This also resulted in the reduction of the number of structures and that is why there is such a large
cost savings estimated on this project.

Construction level are being met. On the eight construction projects that did close, the District
is at about 3.79 percent in use on the general allowance. That equates to about $1.8 million dollars
in actual spend. The majority fell under the category of differing or unforeseen site conditions at
2.52 percent, Followed by owner requested changes at 0.64 percent, and there was one claim on
one of the projects where the contractor was delayed due to a relocation of a water line that the
District did not properly plan for during the design.

Next, Ms. Marshall provided an update on Project Clean Lake. The District has 62 projects overall
related to Project Clean Lake. In addition, there are 17 remaining projects to perform. On July 
the District hit the nine-year mark of the consent decree and since then the District has spent or
awarded $1.42 billion in actual dollars on these projects. That is equivalent to $1,22 billion is 2009
dollars for comparison back to the estimated $3 billion price tag when entered into the consent
decree. The District has also realized approximately $475 million in value engineering savings
towards that price tag, which is all good news. From a CSO control standpoint, the District
currently stands at approximately one billion gallons of reductions -just after nine years - and by
the end of next year that number should almost double with the projects that are currently in
construction.

Some additional highlights from 2019 related to Project Clean Lake include achievement of full
operation of Control Measures 9, 10 and This is associated with the Superior Avenue Pump
Station and the Stones Levy Pump Station which were talked about in Ms. Dreyfuss-Wells? CEO
brie?ng. With this project came 13 million gallons of CSO reduction to the Cuyahoga River.
There were four CSOs controlled with this project. Three of those CSOs were actually turned into
stormwater-only outlets. There is no CSO, no matter what the storm event, going out to the

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

July 18, 20l9

Page I of2 

Cuyahoga River from these outfalls. The one remaining C30 is controlled to zero activations in a
typical year.

The design of the second Site Restoration Services project has been completed. That project will
do some site restoration at four locations. Three of those are along our Dugway Storage Tunnel
alignment, and then the last one is a site on our East 140th project. The mining and pipe install is
completed on the Woodhill Conveyance Tunnel which is part ofthe Doan Valley Tunnel alignment
that was in construction when we had the major flood at Ambler Park in April of 2018. On the
Doan Valley Project, mining ofthe mainline tunnel has commenced.

Looking ahead in 2019, substantial completion is scheduled on the Dugway Storage Tunnel and
with that project coming online, the District will be capturing about 376 million gallons of annual
CSO control. Construction is scheduled to be completed on the remaining Appendix-3 Green
Infrastructure projects. Some of those projects will be featured in an upcoming meeting,
speci?cally the Woodland Central project. With those nine projects came 15 million gallons of
C80 control. The mining of the Westerly tunnel is also scheduled to commence later this year.

Mr. Brown stated that the pump station is pretty amazing to see and the fact that that is going to
limit the C805 to three per year is also remarkable. He stated that it appeared we were pumping
to the river and asked if that was accurate. Ms. Marshall referred Mr. Brown?s inquiry to Mr.
Greenland.

Mr. Greenland stated that he has become aware that there are a couple locations where this is
occurring. He stated that there was a situation many years ago where tie-flex was installed. There
are a couple locations of back How where the river level is high due to the lake level. Weirs have
been raised in certain locations and-?or will be raised to prevent that situation and the District will
continue to watch that.

Ms. Dreyfuss-Wells stated that this is an issue that the District is dealing with right now on other
C805 and that will be talked about in a future update from the Operation and Maintenance
Department. Next, Ms. Dreyfuss-Wells introduced Tom Madej, Deputy Director of Operation and
Maintenance to discuss this issue.

Mr. Madej stated that as far as the lake level, and the river level, they are higher. Temporary weirs
have been put in place at some locations within the collection system in order to keep the higher
water levels out of our system and staff has been asked to evaluate other locations. The
erosion along the lake is becoming a problem as well.

Next, Bill Fussner, Project Manager, provided the quarterly update on the local sewer system
evaluation studies (LSSES). The studies are currently underway. The Southwest Interceptor and
Cuyahoga Valley Interceptor sewer areas are in heavy ?eld and data collection mode. In regard to
the Heights IIilltop interceptor area, in coordination with the watershed team leaders, 10 of the 12
community meetings have been completed where the District meets with communities to show the
?ndings of the studies. The meetings have been well-received and ?nal reports should be
completed and provided to the communities this fall.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

July IS, 2019

Page 12 of2]

The Mill Creek combined sewer area evaluation is complete, and the reports have been received
and are currently in internal review at the District. When the District prioritized the combined area
there were over 2,400 model sub-catchments. The District was able to look at about 30 percent of
those and provide 54 detailed problem assessment area evaluations, 24 of those have pretty detailed
rehabilitation including capacity enhancement, parallel relief, stormwater off-loading as well as
cost associated with those projects. Fifteen of these problem areas were found to have been solved
by either Cleveland Division of Water Pollution Control (WPC) or District projects. There are 15
other areas that were determined to not really be a problem due to a couple of different factors
such as the fact that the model was not completely up to date in that area, in which case the model
has since been updated. It also mightjust be a local 0 issue that was found and con?rmed.
The idea is to meet with WPC in August and provide the ?nal reports this fall.

One ofthe things that was developed with the MCI team was a GlS-based tool and this was in
coordination with our 013 group. This tool can be shared with the communities. When
communities are doing a water main job or a road widening or some other sort of rehabilitation
they could come to the map tool and click on one ofthe map areas and ultimately it pulls up a fact
sheet associated with one of those problem assessment areas described earlier. This is a quick way
to see where the project is, why it was prioritized, what field work was performed, what
alternatives were evaluated and what planning level costs associated with that as well as what is
missing. The tool is a help for next steps for a community to take these projects to the next level.
These projects can obviously come back to the District for funding through our Member
Community infrastructure Program (MCIP).

Mr. Fussner next described the Mill Creek combined sewer area. He said it is 70 percent through
the calibration and 40 percent through the alternatives development. He went on to state that of
the 2020 MCIP applications, eight of the applications received were supported through data
collected under the LSSES, so this would be anything from modeling, flow monitoring, manual
inspections, CCTV, smoke and dye texting. Applications are greatly enhanced by this information.
Mr. Fussner stated one thing to highlight from the planning group, is the Water Environment
Federation National Collection System Conference that he attended where he took place in a
monitoring and modeling workshop. It was an all?day workshop where he was able to share the
District's monitoring efforts and how the District developed a standard to help standardize
deliverables and manage all the different monitoring contracts, which was well-received.

One of the things highlighted was the common trench systems in the District. He received many
condolences from the group about these systems as this is a very unique issue that not many people
nationally have seen. Another thing that was shared in a separate presentation was an integrated
tool for sewer planning that the Heights Hilltop Interceptor Team developed. It is a very
sophisticated tool that integrates the GIS and the hydraulic model. It can predict basement backups
using the model and it can run various alternatives to solve those basement issues and associated
cost with those all in one place. Ultimately this tool is going to be shared with all of the LSSES
teams which provides a great cost savings to the other projects. It also maintains consistency in
the data and the deliverables that come out of the projects.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

July 18, 20l9

Page 13 of2l

Mr. Ciaccia stated that when the District ?rst put the program together there were some pretty
large numbers related to costs for carrying these out. He said over the last year, numbers are
well below. He asked if these are actually being performed at less than anticipated, dollar-wise?

Ms. Marshall responded that in regards to the Heights Hilltop, which is the one wrapping up, most
ifnot all the budget is going to be used. In some cases, where the projection on the cash How might
have been behind, the District may itave decided to hold those up due to other reasons such as staff
availability for field work and data collection. For the most part, they are tracking this year in
regards to what was estimated for the spend for 2019, but consultants tend to conservatively budget
because of fear that they are going to go over what is allowed to be spent in a given year.

Mr. Ciaccia stated that the communities are very responsive and happy with the results that they
are seeing and feel this is going to be useful.

Ms. Dreyfuss-Wells added that there has been a lot of conversation about how to present this
information to communities because obviously there are Title implications. There are
regulatory implications to this and long-term funding questions. The District has a long history of
providing the best technical information and then helping folks get to a solution.

Mr. Brown stated that as an example, more speci?cally to him, Deforest has a history of just being
a problem. There is one home in particular there, that gets three or four feet of water in the front
yard on the large storm events so that is a local sewer issue as well as capacity and the relief sewer
which ultimately ends up in the basin. He is hopeful based on the conversations here that between
the City of Cleveland and the District some outcome will results in projects to eliminate those
issues.

Mr. Fussner stated that the Lee-?Deforest location is low area and the District is going through
alternatives for that area that we will share with WPC.

Mr. Greenland stated that wherever regional streams are traversing, these areas are being looked
at by the District to keep that flow off the streets.

Mr. Brown raised concerned with lake level and river level and whether, as a result of doing this
due diligence and then spending all this money on these projects, there is a situation down the road
where there are still huge capacity erosion issues that the District is looking at. There is a
project on the North Coast Harbor where, if built two years ago, the entrance ofthe bridge would
be three inches under water right now and it would need to be redesigned. Toronto also built a
bridge that is now under water.

Ms. Marshall responded that, from the wastewater side, the focus on level of service is the five
year, six-hour storm. She added that the District is also looking for solutions that get the wet
weather out of the system as opposed to transport and treat or upsize. The District is first and
foremost trying to get the wet weather ?ow out of the sanitary system. Another thing that plays a
big role in this is not only potentially the changing rain patterns, but also aging infrastructure being

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

July 18, 20l9

Page 14 of2l

leaky. Reinvestment in the local infrastructure from the MCIP program is very critical to helping
with all ofthat.

Mr. Greenland added that on the regional stormwater side the District is looking at recent storm
events. Lucky or unlucky, a lot of them have occurred during the monitoring period of these
master plans, so the District is getting a real-world view. Recent storm events are being compared
to historical records. The most recent scientifically basis that people use is a 2004 long-term
precipitation projection for different regions, including Cleveland, so the District is using that and
comparing it. What the District is trying to do is push level of protection, ?ooding, and erosion,
up to 100-year storm, where it can. It is not going to get there everywhere so the District is trying
to push as high as it can, but a 100-year level ofprotection on stormwater flooding comes at a very
significant cost. The District is going to understand those costs and realities and try and push the
envelope as high as it can to keep stormwater off the streets, out ofthe neighborhoods - keep it in
the streams.

At this point, Ms. Marshall?s presentation concluded, and Mr. Greenland discussed the half-year
update for the RSMP. He began with the expansion of the District?s stormwater program. North
Royalton was first and now the District serves on a regional level the entire community. The
District does not serve that entire community on the sanitary side. Recently the northern halfof
Olmsted Township came into the District, so the District is starting to get more of an envelope
around the Rocky River tributaries and hopefully this effort can continue going forward. Mr.
Greenland referred to slides showing the holes on the periphery and stated he is hopeful this
program will expand to those areas. Mr. Greenland added that when the District started the
program, the goals or estimates were 85 to 90 percent collection ofthe new fee. Since 2017 there
was ajump and now the District is at over 95 percent collection. The District?s billing services
team under Mike McGing, Manager ofBilling Services, is involved, the GIS services team is doing
a greatjob in making sure all of the parcels are digitized and the District is collecting revenue.

Mr. Ciaccia asked for the collection rates on the stormwater-only accounts. Mr. Greenland
responded that they would get that information for him.

Mr. Greenland went on to discuss Stormwater Inspection and Maintenance (SWIM) activities. He
stated that he believes SWIM to be caught up with woody debris removal. He referred to a slide
showing a chart of the annual large woody debris removed indicating the total cubic yards of
primarily woody material removed from the streams. In 2016, the program had just started back
up so the contractors were ?re-procured? out in the field. Mr. Greenland said that the numbers on
the chart show the number of projects where woody debris removal occurred. In 2017, there was
removal of a lot of cubic yardage of debris and a lot of projects. In 2018, the number started to
come down. The recent storm events brought on some pretty good timber in certain locations but
for 2019, it is not expected that the 2017 total will be exceeded. The District cleaned up the system
and will continue efforts to keep it cleaned.

Next, Mr. Greenland showed slides of before and after pictures of various sites. On the
maintenance side, the District assisted the City of East Cleveland along Dugway Brook. There is
a long-forgotten dam and there are trees on the emergency spillway. Ohio Department of Natural

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

July 18, 2019

Page 15 of2 

Resources (ODNR) cited East Cleveland because they were in non?compliance. The District
worked with East Cleveland and ODNR to clear that emergency spillway and it is in great
condition today. Next, he showed a slid of a large-scale woody debris removal at the shipping
channel on the Cuyahoga River. It is very near the site of the ?re 50 years ago. Collection of
timber started behind the bridge and then due to all of the rain around the time of the event it
continued to pile up. The District successfully removed this material, estimated to be 800 to 1.000
cubic yards oftimber. This site is now clean.

Bear Creek is another example where there is a lot ofwoody debris and material blocking culverts.
When this occurs and there is a big rain, there are going to be problems of flooding and erosion,
and the District took care ofthis as well.

In the area of watershed technical support, the Cuyahoga River South master plan is complete so
the community reports and meetings are going out and the District will begin prioritizing project
recommendations from this master planning study. Not all of them are the highest of priority.
Projected cost is $223 million in Cuyahoga River South SWMP. In the Cuyahoga North master
planning area the District is at about 84 percent complete and towards the end of this year this
study should be completed. This study is in the urban core, Big Creek and other tribs in the
Cuyahoga North area. The culverted stream issue is one the District is going to continue to talk
about. That technical memo is in and it is being reviewed as to cost.

The Crossings Technical Memo is separate from culverted streams. The Crossings are those bridge
crossings that really are the responsibility ofthe community, the county responsibility, or ODOT.
The District is analyzing all the culverts and will be meeting with communities to talk about those
results. The reports are coming in and by the fourth quarter expect to start the discussion with
communities. An interesting partnership between Brooklyn and the District was the installation of
a gauge upstream of the Club area as an advanced warning system for them.
That's an area with very acute ?ooding where cars get trapped and people get trapped. So a gauge
went in and then there was a big storm and they had 27 minutes to warn people and the Fire
Department could try to get people of those buildings. The warning system worked and they are
line-tuning the response.

In the Rocky River area this master plan will be complete next year. It is about 65 percent complete
now. This is an area that got a signi?cant amount of rain in those most recent rain events so in this
area Olmsted Township is being studied and Abram, Baldwin, Baker, and Blodgett Creeks are
being studied. Baldwin is a classic example of a stream that has experienced a lot of ?ooding.
Bonnie Banks is in that watershed area. The District, under the RSMP, has implemented initial
measures primarily to arrest the most severe and acute erosion issues. Examples are the art museum
and Nagy Boulevard.

In other areas we have brought existing facilities and restored their existing capabilities. Bonnie
Banks is a good example. Bonnie Banks had a lot of sediment in it. The District dug that out to
its original capacity and in that storm it ?lled that basin and worked as it was intended. Now
Bonnie Banks is being studied. There are additional recommendations to handle those larger storm
events so additional storage is probably part ofthe mix. Additional culvert conveyance is part of

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

July IS, 2019

Page 16 of2l

the mix and the District is in the process now of evaluating those alternatives to determine the next
steps at Bonnie Banks. Across the District?s service area these master plans are developing those
longer-term recommendations to alleviate the ?ooding issues that are occurring, and these projects
will tend to be much bigger than the ones implemented to date.

Mr. Ciaccia asked if what was done in that project was remedial in nature. It was not complete of
what was planned because the way it came offin the news was as ifthe District did something that
did not work. Obviously, this stormjust was much larger than what had been done from a remedial
standpoint.

Mr. Greenland agreed and responded that capacity was restored. The rest is coming and the master
plan and Rocky River will identify those solutions and then the District will get them into the mix
for implementation.

Mayor DeGeeter expressed his thanks and appreciation and said that one of the things he has not
told the residents that live on Stormers Drive that got hit but elsewhere was had the District not
performed that dredging, he is not sure what that neighborhood would have looked like with that
torrential downpour. The problem is corrective action was taken a couple of years ago before the
stormwater came in internally. Then we got capacity back. He went on to say that there was a
?ooding meeting and just two wards were hit on that July 5th and that he wanted to recognize Matt
Scharver, Deputy Director of Watershed Programs, and Donna Friedman, Watershed Team
Leader, for doing a tremendousjob and presentation.

Mr. Greenland added that the District is trying to push the envelope up to the IOU-year storm. He
said he does not know where they will get with storms and the Bonnie Banks area. He said there
is anecdotal information about that storm and in some places five- to ten-year and he has heard
approaching ZOO-year of some isolated cells. That is a very high storm level. So from a stormwater
management or a sewer management perspective, that is a very dif?cult storm to handle but the
District is still going to try and push that envelope up higher.

Mayor Stefanik said he wanted to recognize the District staff that came out to North Royalton for
the Council meeting on Tuesday night. He said Matt and his team did a great job. lle said
thankfully only a couple of elected officials were yelling and screaming. It was educational for
residents to hear when there is five inches of rain an hour and the storm sewers just fill up and
there is nowhere for their footer drains to empty out into except for an inch or two in basements,
and most of the people understand that but that the District has recommendations in the area up at
Oak Ridge -- the northeastern part of the City. He said that he is looking forward to working with
staff to implement those measures, hopefully sometime later this year or next year. He said
everyone did a great job explaining it. They were out there Saturday and Sunday right after the
storm evaluating the stormwater system and it meant a lot to the City and a lot to the residents, too
and he wanted to thank everyone.

Mr. Greenland stated that Chagrin River and Lake Erie direct tributaries is the last of the four
master planning studies. It is about 25 percent complete. This is in a big combined sewer area,
primarily Euclid Creek, Doan, Dugway, Nine-Mile, and those types of streams. Projected

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

July 18, 20l9

Page [7 of21

completion is into 202]. There are a lot of culverted streams in the combined sewer portions and
other open stream segments, so the District has pushed the TV inspections of the closed culverts
and geomorphic inspections of the open streams so that is where the bulk of the work has occurred
to date. They are going to now move to additional data collection but then it is the model and
problems and alternative solutions in trying to identify what is best to solve problems in this area.

Mr. Greenland said he wanted to discuss more about culverted streams across the regional
stormwater system. He showed slides depicting Dugway Culvert and the Brookside Drive culvert
which was a temporary repair in the Big Creek watershed. The District is trying to identify the
length in miles of culverted stream, to characterize their location. He wants to find out if they are
within a purely stormwater area or are they in the combined sewer area, because you have
combined sewer over?ows discharging to these streams. The District has a little bit to go on the
Chagrin and Lake Erie tribs. The District looks at who owns these things or who potentially owns
these things. And it is a mixed bag depending on whether you are in the stormwater area or the
combined sewer area. Then we are developing costs and to date, the costs are $50-plus million.
There is no cost information on the Lake Erie tribs, but the District does have a lot of miles of
culverted streams. We're going to compile all this information and bring this to the Board towards
the end ofthis year and have a good discussion about culvert ownership responsibilities and how
we are going to execute the work necessary to protect these culverts going forward.

Mr. Greenland moved discussion to property acquisition and stated that area is going very well
and that is a tribute to the Legal Department as well as a new hire in the watershed program area
looking at the long-term property acquisition situation. There are big projects that are going to
involve property either through acquisition or easements going forward. The not-so-good news is
that budget has been spent a total of $4 million for the year. This is just exceeding the
budget so there will be discussions at some point later in the year transferring potential operating
funds into the capital fund, but these investments are necessary to drive the big projects going
forward.

Mr. Brown asked that, because a lot of notices are going out for people to recertify their floodplain
areas, does the District work with our member communities to make sure that things that the
District is procuring, get articulated correctly in the state's map?

Mr. Greenland said the District had discussions with the city engineers. The models are starting to
generate some of the information necessary for map revision purposes. It has not been an initial
focus of the District?s program, but he said that he sees this as a future focus going forward.

In terms of goals and the improvements, the District has a pretty good handle now on tracking
from acquisition through maintenance to make sure the District is taking care of all the properties.
Water quality is a big deal in the RSMP. It is one of the three tenants of the program: erosion,
flooding, and water quality. Phosphorus and algal bloom issues on Lake Erie are largely driven by
sediment discharge from rivers to the lake that carries phosphorus. The District is addressing water
quality in all of its projects, looking for opportunities to have water quality gains.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

July IS, 2019

Page 18 of2l

The nomination process has been revised for projects to incorporate more water quality provisions
because they were not there and they were not scoring well. The District coordinates with our
Water Quality Industrial Surveillance group to collect the types of data needed to understand the
water quality gains the District is achieving going forward.

In the design and construction area, are tracking well. The only one missing right now is the
average of the bids plus or minus 10 percent and the bid came in very low on a project. The rest
are tracking or hitting the which is good news. The spend as well as the capital is doing pretty
well on the operating budget particularly in the area of design construction on the master plan
spend, tracking at 96 percent right now. The department is pushing the program which pushes the
budget so discussions about controlling the budget are upcoming. The District is making a
difference and starting to build projects that really make a difference in the community. He showed
a slide of before and after in Beecher's Brook in May?eld Village. There is a much better situation
for those homes. Next, he showed slides ofthe art museum area of Doan Brook before and after.
Vegetation will emerge. That project is complete and it is a major success. He showed a picture
of where the project is at now - no vegetation but that spillway is gone, the erosion is gone.

Mr. Greenland stated that the District recreated a stream that actually facilitates fish passage. John
Rhodes from WQIS is going to fish for steelhead up in Big Creek because the ?sh will pass this
area and it would be a good story for the District to have steelhead trout in the urban corridor.

Mr. Greenland added that the TOWpath is one of the earlier projects, and this is on the Cuyahoga
River which was eroding into the Towpath Trail and the canal, so it was a bad situation. He showed
a slide of what it looks like today showing it is held together really well. Next, he introduced Matt
Scharver, Deputy Director of Water Program to talk about programmatic delivery along Mill Creek
and how all these pieces come together.

Mr. Scharver displayed slides depicting the Mill Creek Watershed. He indicated that the yellow
polygons are the problem areas, and essentially Mill Creek is covered in 16 problem areas. with
multiple projects and multiple phases. There is a lot of work to be done. What is not shown on
the map are the feeder streams, the headwater streams that once existed before the area was
urbanized. Compare that to our circulatory system, so you have the capillaries that feed your
arteries and veins and ultimately get to your heart which is the most important, so, for the District
from a watershed perspective, those capillaries, the feeder streams, are gone. All that remains is
the skeleton of Mill Creek so that is what the District is working with. There are eight member
communities within the Mill Creek Watershed and within the watershed boundary are a series of
projects. Impervious area covers nearly 40 percent of the Mill Creek watershed which is a bad
news story for Mill Creek. Next, Mr. Scharver displayed a graphic in red, showing the culverted
streams. He said of that regional stream system, the District has at least six miles of culverted
streams in Mill Creek's watershed, which is very problematic in terms oftrying to get Mill Creek
to function properly.

This Mill Creek Stabilization at Warner Road project was actually one of the District's first
projects executed under the RSMP back in 2013. This was an emergency project on the border of
Gar?eld Heights and Cuyahoga Heights where Mill Creek was slowly marching towards Warner

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Reguiar Meeting

July 18, 2019

Page 19 of2l

Road. A signi?cant Dominion East Ohio gas line was located there so Mill Creek was stabilized
temporarily. That temporary stabilization in 2013 has held through 2019. Of note on the picture
is the annual sediment, phosphorus and nitrogen capture for the project and these estimates will be
on the following examples as well, tracking our ability to pull soil from the system through erosion
protection and what that means in terms of nitrogen and phosphorus reduction under the program.

Mr. Ciaccia asked if the picture is some sort of extrapolation or is there a monitor there actually
performing monitoring.

Mr. Scharver stated that the District looks at how many linear feet of restoration is being done and
using the US EPA STEPL Program to model that analysis. That is how those numbers are
estimated and tracked. At the bottom of the watershed is Garfield Heights and Cuyahoga Heights.
Flipping up to the upper end ofthe watershed is Highland Hills. The project is the Highland llills
-- Highland Park Golf Course - 4,300 linear feet of restoration. Six acres of floodplain was
captured. The District removed an online basin, removed all the gabion baskets from the
streambanks and basically freed Mill Creek to ?ow freely again with access to its ?oodplain. He
pointed out the picture on the right, depicting exactly what the District needs to achieve in terms
of rehabilitating the riparian corridor to allow these major streams to flood where they should flood
and not in people's homes.

Next Mr. Scharver showed a slide illustrating a partner project, Mill Creek restoration in Highland
Hills involving 1,100 linear feet of additional restoration. This is a Section 319 Project that the
Mill Creek Watershed Partnership is implementing, so the District helped stand up that nonprofit
organization through our Watershed Service Agreement Program and now this is the first major
project that they are implementing. The District is supplying $175,000-worth of funding to this
project in addition to our technical service, expanding our ability to implement projects through
our partners, which is a good example.

Along the lines of our ambitious property acquisition, the Mill Creek Stabilization Project in
Warrensville Heights is a good example of where stormwater master planning plays a significant
strategic role in defining what should be done first.

Next, he stated that the District is working with the City of Warrensville Heights to acquire up to
16 parcels. The District has captured four so far and a few more are in the appraisal process so
there is incremental progress towards getting these parcels captured so the District can do a holistic
restoration along Mill Creek. Next, is the Kerruish stormwater basin. This is a key flood control
facility in the Mill Creek Watershed located in the City of Cleveland and in Warrensville Heights.
This is where SWIM plays a significant role for us.

In addition to their debris removal projects, SWIM was able to orchestrate compliance with
ODNR, Division of Water - Dam Safety Program, in terms of removing the collected sediment
within the basin and addressing all the deficiencies with that Class I dam. In addition to this flood
control facility which protects Maple Heights, Garfield Heights, and other communities
the District will have additional restoration upstream of this project most notably to
protect a local sanitary sewer that is fully exposed right now on Mill Creek and is very vulnerable.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

July 18,2019

Page 20 

There are many more things to ?x but this was very strategic in terms of getting the City of
Cleveland back into compliance particularly with helping them get the emergency action plan and
their operation and maintenance plan to ODNR for full compliance.

Mr. Scharver discussed the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (Ohio EPA) water quality
standards for Mill Creek and all ofthe streams and rivers in the District?s service area. The lower
Mill Creek is in full attainment, but on the table shown on the slides in the upper reaches of Mill
Creek the District is either in partial or non-attainment, so there is much more work to be done.
All this programmatic delivery long term will bring the District to hopefully full attainment
throughout the watershed.

Switching gears to the watershed programs itself, he wanted to highlight the Community Cost-
Share Program. An example is in Oakwood Village where the Village took their cost-share dollars
and implemented a local project in terms of removing a collapsed culvert on Little Bear Creek.

Another example, in Middleburg Heights, relining culverts that have structural issues. At this
point, the District has eclipsed the $10 million mark in terms of Community Cost-Share funds
being executed at the local level, 160 projects completed so far. The District is closer to that magic
number of 55 out of 55 communities participating. There are a few communities that have not
committed to what they plan to use those dollars for, so they are holding it in reserve for particular
projects. Beyond this $10 million investment that is already in the ground and that has been made
in terms of equipment purchase, stream restoration, catch basin cleaning and things of that nature,
the District has another $9 million worth of agreements either executed or in process and then
another $9 million on top of that in terms of allocation agreements. These are local investments
coming to the region that complement the regional investment that the District is making.

Open Session

There were no items.

IX. Public Session (any subject matter)

There were no items.

X. Executive Session

There were no items.

XI. Approval of Items from Executive Session (if necessary)



BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

July 18, 2019

Page 2] onI

XII. Adjournment

MOTION Mr. Brown stated business having been concluded, he would entertain a motion to
adjourn. Mayor Bacci moved and Ms. Dumas seconded the motion to adjourn at 1:55 pm. Without

objection, the motion carried unanimously. 

?mothy J. eter, Secretary
Board of Tr stees
Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District



Darnell Brown, President
Board of Trustees
Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District

 

