 

 

CUYAHOGA COUNTY LAND REUTILIZATION CORPORATION
MINUTES AND ACTIONS OF BOARD OF 

7 . REGULAR QUARTERLY MEETING OF
December 21, 2018

 

 

 

 

 

LOCATION: Cuyahoga Land Bank
812 Huron Road, E., Conference Room 830
Cleveland, OH 44115
E: December 21, 2018; 10:00 A.M. ET
PURPOSE: Regular quarterly meeting to consider the following business:

1. Call to order by the Chair. The regular quarterly meeting of the Cuyahoga County Land Reutilization Corporation (the
was held December 21, 2018 at 812 Huron Road, E., Suite 830, Cleveland, Ohio and called to order at 10:11 am.
Chairman Anthony Brancatelli, Michael King, Representative of Cuyahoga County Council President Dan Brady, Mayor
Michael Summers, Ms. April Urban and Mr. Nathan Kelly were present and constituted a quorum.

2. Staff Reports:

President?s Report:

0 Status of Acquisitions, Demolitions and Renovations to Dale To date, the has acquired
10,900 properties, demolished 7,212, completed 82 in-house renovations, 81 of which have been
sold. The has transacted 1,778 homes through its deed-in-escrow program and direct sales.
It currently has 4,241 properties in its inventory. During the months of October and November,
the transferred 144 vacant lots to the City of Cleveland.

0 Litigation Update The Oak Leadership litigation is still pending. The is expecting to be
dismissed from this legal action by the next Board meeting. The declaratory judgment
action against the City of Cleveland is still pending with no action being taken. The action ?led in
the Supreme Court by Attorney Dann challenging the BOR statutes is pending. No rulings have
been made on this action.

Ken Surratt, Representative for County Executive Budish arrives at 10:18 am.

0 Legislation Prior to the Board meeting, the Board was sent an Executive Summary of the
proposed land banking legislative changes. Land bank legislative changes should be introduced at
the State by the end ofJanuary. Mayor Summers inquired as to the number of county land banks
in Ohio. Mr. Frangos informed the Board that there are currently 54 land banks in the State
of Ohio.

0 Contractor Update - A year?to?date summary of demolition contractor and field service contractor
expenditures was provided to the Board. The contract approval thresholds established by the
Board for demolition is $2 million and the field service contract threshold is $500,000. OBON, inc.,
a demolition contractor and Al?s Home Repair, a ?eld service contractor, both exceeded the
contract threshold during the last quarter of 2018. The Board unanimously ratified at the
September Board meeting the exceeding of the contract thresholds for OBON, Inc. and Al?s
Home Repair. The Board was informed that the continues to excel in working with 
contractors.

0 Strategic led Impact Study Patti Choby from Cobalt Group provided the Board with
an update on the strategic plan. Dynamo Metrics, the ?rm hired to complete the impact study for
the is continuing to work on the impact study.

1

 

Mayor Brad Sellers arrives at 10:28 a.m.

3. Approval of the Minutes of'the September 28, 2018 regular quarterly meeting. The minutes of the September 28, 2018
meeting were distributed. A motion for approval of the minutes was made by Michael King, representative for Councilman
Dan Brady, seconded by Mayor Sellers, and were approved by voice vote without objection.

4. Report of the Chief Operating Of?cer by Mr. William Whitney

0 County Demolition Program Update 
The received its final round of the $3 million allocated by the County for demolition of
properties in the inventory. Approximately 10 municipalities have designated the 
to act as their agent to perform nuisance abatement demolitions under the County Demolition
Program. Mr. Surratt indicated that as of November the County has awarded approximately $42
million in demolition funding. Applications from municipalities are continuing to be processed.
Mr. Whitney informed the Board that the $100,000 cap available to demolish the larger
structures in municipalities has been a very valuable tool and is making an impact throughout the
County.

0 Hardest Hit Funds Discussion and Update
U.S. Treasury awarded hardest hit funds to Ohio and other states for demolition of vacant and
blighted properties. The awarded funds are administered through OH FA. The has received
to date $60 million and has spent $51 million. All funds allocated must be spent by the Summer
of 2020. The will spend its funds during 2019. OHFA has indicated that reallocation of
funds not spent by county land banks may take place in January of 2019.

0 Presentation of Finances
The proposed Fiscal Year 2019 budget along with explanatory notes was presented to the Board
and distributed prior to the meeting and were provided to the Board and discussed.

 

Call for Public Hearing. The public hearing commenced at approximately 11:12 a.m. The Board Chair, without
objection, opened the public hearing on the proposed 2019 budget required by Section 9.2 of the Code of
Regulations. The Chair orally presented the rules governing the public hearing and noted for the public that copies
of the proposed 2019 budget were available. There being no discussion from the public, the public hearing on the
2019 budget was officially adjourned at 11:13 a.m.

5. Resolution 2018-3 approving the Annual Budget for the Cuyahoga County Land Reutilization Corporation for Fiscal Year
2019. There being no further discussion on the Resolution, Mayor Summers offered for consideration and adoption
Resolution 2018-3. Mr. Surratt seconded the motion.

Resolution 2018-3 was unanimously adopted.

6. Other Business Mr. King informed the Board that the County Housing Program will be introduced early in 2019.
Councilman Brancatelli indicated that the will be celebrating 10 years of success and a celebration is planned for
October 2019. Mr. Frangos also informed the Board that the will be meeting with CDCs and partners in early February
to discuss partnerships and collaboration.

Mayor Summers dismisses himself from the meeting at 11:45 a.m.

A video presentation of projects the is working on with a few select non?pro?ts was presented to the Board.

Mr. Kelly dismisses himself from the meeting at 11:55 a.m.

7. Public Comment ?Mr. Igor Ternovsky of 2264 East 76th Street, a property owner, is interested in purchasing City of
Cleveland Land Bank lots. Mr. Ternovsky addressed Chairman Brancatelli and the Board regarding the policy and

procedures of the City of Cleveland. Chairman Brancatelli briefly explained the process of purchasing a vacant lot from the
City of Cleveland Land' Bank and requested that Mr. Ternovsky present his proposal to the City of Cleveland.

8. Adjournment. There being no more business to come before the meeting, Mayor Sellers moved that the meeting be
adjourned. The motion was seconded by Mr. King and the motion carried unanimously. The meeting was adjourned at
approximately 12:05 pm.

I hereby certify ?that the minutes related to the Board of Directors? regular quarterly meeting of December 21, 2018 set
forth above are the minutes approved by the Board of Directors at their meeting of March 29, 2019.




i. _hrr
RobertKRink, Secretary 
Cuyahoga County Land Reutilization Corporation

