The Board of Directors of the Cuyahoga County Land Reutilization Corporation (the
?Board of Directors? or this ?Board?) met for its regular quarterly meeting on the 29th day of March,
2019 at 10:00 o?clock, eastern time, in the Board Conference Room of its of?ces located at 812
Huron Rd. E., Suite 800, Cleveland, Ohio 44115 with the following Directors present and voting on this
Resolution as indicated:

Dan Brady, Cuyahoga County Council Appointee represented by: Michael King
Anthony Brancatelli, Councilman, Ward 12, City of Cleveland and Board Chair
Armond Budish, Cuyahoga County Executive, represented by: Ken Surratt
Nathan Kelly, Managing Director, Cushman 

Edward Rybka, Chief of Regional Development, City of Cleveland

Brad Sellers, Mayor of the City of Warrensville Heights

April Urban, CWRU Center on Urban Poverty and Community Development

Michael King moved the adoption of the following resolution (this ?Resolution?):

RESOLUTION NO. 2019-1
AMENDING THE PUBLIC RECORDS POLICY OF THE CORPORATION

WHEREAS, on May 22, 2009 the Board of Directors of Cuyahoga County Land
Reutilization Corporation (the ?Board? and the respectively), upon acknowledging that the
is a ?public office? as de?ned in division (A) of Section 149.011 of the Ohio Revised Code (the
?Revised Code?) and the information that is holds and maintain constitutes a ?public record? as de?ned
in division of Revised Code Section 149.43, except as otherwise provided in subdivisions 
of division (A) of Revised Code Section 149.43 and Revised Code Section 1724.11, adopted
Resolution 2009-5 to provide for the a public records policy as supplemental to, and not in
derogation of, the provisions in Revised Code Chapter 149 related to public records (the ?Original
Policy?); and

WHEREAS, the President of the is now requesting that the Board adopt certain
amendments to the Original Policy (the ?Amendments?) necessitated by the passage of time to make the
Original Policy consistent with the current operations of the while maintaining the 
compliance under Revised Code Section 149.43 and related statutes; and

WHEREAS, this Board hereby ?nds and determines that all formal actions relative to the
adoption of this Resolution were taken in an open meeting of this Board, and that all the deliberations of
this Board, and of its committees, if any, which resulted in formal actions, were taken in meetings open
to the public, in full compliance with applicable legal requirements, including Section 121.22 of the
Revised Code;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Directors of the Cuyahoga
County Land Reutilization Corporation that:

Section 1. This Board hereby adopts the amendments to the Original Policy as set forth
in Exhibit A attached to this Resolution and incorporated herein as if fully rewritten herein (the
?Amended Policy?) and con?rms and directs that the provisions of the Original Policy not affected by
the Amendments shall remain in full force and effect. The Board hereby authorizes and directs the
President to cause a copy of the Amended Policy be posted in an area of the of?ces of the 
accessible to and for the information of the general public.

Section 2. This Resolution shall take effect and be in force immediately upon its
adoption.

Mayor Brad Sellers seconded the motion.

Upon roll call on the adoption of this Resolution, the vote was as follows:
Ayes: 6

Nays: 0

The undersigned, Secretary of the Cuyahoga County Land Reutilization Corporation,
certi?es that the foregoing is a true and correct excerpt from the minutes of the meeting of March 29,
2019, of the Board of Directors of the Cuyahoga County Land Reutilization Corporation, showing the
adoption 'of the Resolution above set forth.

i I, 
find;

Secretary 
Dated: March 29, 2019 Cuyahoga'County Land Reutilization CorporatiOn

 

FUNDING INFORMATION FOR RESOLUTION
(CHECK AND COMPLETE APPLICABLE SELECTION)

 

Not Applicable to this Resolution since only
amendments to the Public Records Policy and not a
speci?c expenditure is being authorized.

 

 

 

Fund to be charged: .
Account to be charged: 
Unencumbered Funds Available: 
Amount to be charged: 

 

 

 

 

 WHOOWUM g?m EZUEZHM

ENE?wad 

 

gig g; gag
gt." :mno?MM 10E

 

IE

Hui-u . [q

is 


Eifd'lf?uliltt.
LIP-I I i I h. IL 'il

Wit?

. i

n?llig?ig?i Show"



I ww'

it-ijlit

awn:


Egan.? FILE



sir. IE I r-
[Iuiil ll'l??w?ij

"Illk - I.- I

- Firiirian?wl- 

hlhhu

?lial?inll. 



ihi


tliiti?rg it'll!!-



. . . . 



El LN i?E?l l-I ii.



Ehililnii avg
{Ital-I?ll {If}

limit:



 

mill-2 " 1

