THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
FACILITIES & SPACE COMMITTEE
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES

DATE:

Monday, July 22, 2019

TIME:

4:00 p.m.

PLACE:

MetroHealth Medical Center
K107, Business Services Building

COMMITTEE
TRUSTEES:

Mr. Monnolly, Ms. Dee, Mr. Silvers

STAFF:

A. Boutros, W. Jones, J. Platten, C. Richmond, S. Rajki, K. Dethloff, M. Hewitt

(ABSENT):

Mr. McDonald, Ms. Whiting, Ms. Anderson, Dr. Brandt, B. Boulanger, M. Phillips,
M. Stern, J. Jacono

GUEST:

Marvin Daniels

Mr. Monnolly called the regular meeting of the Facilities & Space Committee to order at 4:10 p.m.
The minutes are written in a format conforming to the printed meeting agenda for the convenience of
correlation, recognizing that some of the items were discussed out of sequence.
I.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES – MAY 20, 2019 MEETING
The minutes of the May 20, 2019 Facilities and Space Committee were approved as presented.

II.

DISCUSSION ITEMS
A. Mr. Jones introduced Mrs. Margaret Hewitt, Director, Planning, Design & Construction to
the Board.
B. Ms. Dethloff provided an update on the status of the Facilities Report to the Board. There
were approximately 75 Utilities Interruptions that occurred through June. Two generators
at MHMC and one chiller required refurbishing. OBC experienced several power outages.
Cleveland Heights experienced a major power outage as the result of a transformer failure
in a nearby building. And a fallen tree took out power to our Brecksville Ambulatory
Surgery and Health Center resulting in a 1 ½ hour power outage. Karen commended her
staff for being well prepared to handle any issues in anticipation of the hot weather
resulting in no major catastrophes that occurred.
C. Mr. Jones provided a progress report update on the Campus Transformation Project. On
the design phase of the project, 100% of the Construction Document (CD) is now in

progress and the Critical AV/IT/Security Design is near completion. Installation of

 Facilities & Space Committee
July 22, 2019 Meeting Minutes

site utilities improvements and View Road improvements scope of work are 75%
overall complete. The View Road site lighting design is underway. Mass
excavation and caisson drilling scope continues and on schedule. City permits
approval for all critical phases of work continues to meet scheduled milestones.
Coordination work with CEI is continuing and on schedule. Targeted costs for
work scope in design are within overall budget parameters.
Mr. Jones informed the board that the amendments to the HGA contract will be
approved during the July 24th session. The GMP Package C will be presented at the
next Board meeting in September.
III.

CONSENT ITEMS
A. Recommendation to the President and CEO of The MetroHealth System to approve the
authorization of the System to Transfer Certain Real Estate to CCH Development
Corporation.
The Committee approved the recommendation for full Board action.
B. Recommendation to the President and CEO of The MetroHealth System to approve the
engagement of Whiting-Turner Contracting Company as the System’s Construction
Manager at Risk for the Main Campus Cafeteria and Kitchen Improvements.
The Committee approved the recommendation for full Board action.
C. Recommendation to the President and CEO of The MetroHealth System to approve the
further amended Agreement for Architectural and Engineering Services with HGA
Architects and Engineers, LLC as the Master Architect for Campus Transformation.
The Committee approved the recommendation for full Board action.
D. Recommendation to the President and CEO of The MetroHealth System to approve the
Lease for Space located in Norwalk, OH.
The Committee approved the recommendation for full Board action.
E. Recommendation to the President and CEO of The MetroHealth System to approve the
Lease to Establish A Clinical Service Location.
The Committee approved the recommendation for full Board action.

IV.

NON-CONSENT / ACTION ITEMS
None

 Facilities & Space Committee
July 22, 2019 Meeting Minutes

There being no further business to come before the Committee, the meeting was adjourned at 4:50 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,

Walter B. Jones, Jr.
Senior Vice President, Campus Transformation

 