ALCOHOL, DRUG ADDICTION & MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES BOARD OF CUYAHOGA COUNTY
COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE MEETING MINUTES
OCTOBER 23, 2019
PRESENT: Rev. Benjamin F. Gohlstin, Sr., Reginald C. Blue, Ph.D., Crystal L. Bryant, Esq., MS, LSW, Elsie Caraballo, J. Robert
Fowler, Ph.D., Katie Kern-Pilch, ATR-BC, LPC-S, Steve Killpack, MS, Eugenia Kirkland, LSW, MSSA, CDCA, Max M. Rodas, MA,
Sharon Rosenbaum, MBA, Harvey A. Snider, Esq., Mary M. Step, Ph.D.
ABSENT: Erskine Cade, MBA, Gregory X. Boehm, M.D., Gwendolyn A. Howard, LSW, MSSA,
BOARD STAFF PRESENT: Scott Osiecki, Chief Executive Officer, Joseph Arnett, Carole Ballard, Erin DiVincenzo, Tami Fischer,
Cheryl Fratalonie, Felicia Harrison, Esther Hazlett, Myra Henderson, Charde Hollins, June Hudson, Leslie Koblentz, Linda Lamp,
Beth Pfohl, Starlette Sizemore-Rice, Larry Smith, LaVedia Smith, Maggie Tolbert
1. CALL TO ORDER / AUDIENCE INPUT
Chairperson, Benjamin Gohlstin, called the Committee of the Whole Meeting to order at 4:00 p.m. in the Ohio Room.
2. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
The minutes from the Joint Faith-based Outreach and Planning and Oversight Committee of September 11, 2019 and the Finance
and Operations Committee of September 18, 2019 were approved as submitted. The Faith-based Outreach portion of the September
11, 2019 minutes were approved as submitted on October 2, 2019.
3. SFY 2021-2026 COMMUNITY CAPITAL PLAN
Mr. Scott Osiecki, Chief Executive Officer, reported that the State Fiscal Year (SFY) 2021-2026 Community Capital Plan identifies
requests for capital projects that benefit Mental Health and Alcohol and/or Other Drug (AOD) clients with an emphasis on Permanent
Supportive Housing (PSH), Supportive Housing and other program space that complements a full continuum of care. The Ohio
Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services (OhioMHAS) issued a notice to all Boards on August 28, 2019, that it is in the
process of preparing the next six year capital plan for submission to the Office of Budget and Management (OBM). OhioMHAS will
use the local system’s capital plan submission to develop the community section of its capital plan request to OBM. All Boards that
anticipate requesting capital funds at any time in the next six years must submit a Capital Plan to OhioMHAS by October 10, 2019.
The Capital Plan includes a project worksheet form for each individual project.
Providers submitted proposed projects to the ADAMHS Board and staff reviewed and prioritized projects according to OhioMHAS
priorities. Information submitted by providers that included other funds leveraged, client and/or family member involvement and
project readiness were considered in the prioritization process. OhioMHAS does not anticipate receiving capital appropriations to
sufficiently fund all projects in the State. The ADAMHS Board’s Community Capital Plan and prioritization of projects can be
amended each SFY as needed and requested by OhioMHAS.
Mr. Osiecki reported that the projects included in the SFY 2021-2026 Community Capital Plan reflect areas of needs that align with
the Board’s Community and Strategic Plans. He stated that Board funding is not required and that OhioMHAS funding is to be used
for capital construction and/or renovation. Third party funding is provided through the requesting agency.
Motion to recommend approval of the ADAMHS Board of Cuyahoga County’s submission of the SFY 2021-2026 Community
Capital Plan to OhioMHAS that was due and submitted on October 10, 2019 to the full Board. MOTION: H. Snider / SECOND:
S. Killpack / AYES: R. Blue, C. Bryant, E. Caraballo, R. Fowler, B. Gohlstin, K. Kern-Pilch, S. Killpack, M. Rodas, S. Rosenbaum,
H. Snider, M. Step / NAYS: None / ABSTAIN: None / Motion passed.

4.

FINANCE REPORTS – SEPTEMBER 2019

Ms. Felicia Harrison, Chief Financial Officer, reported that for the first 9 months of 2019 the Board has spent a total of $3,505,667.00
that is roughly 61.71% of the total Administrative budget. She noted that relative to the timeframe involved via percentage, 75.00%
of the year, the administrative budget is under the projected amount by 13.29%.

Page 1 of 6

 Committee of the Whole Meeting Minutes

October 23, 2019

In September, the Board received revenues of $3,362,829.00, bringing our total revenue to $57,080,165.00 which is approximately
90% of our anticipated revenue for the year as a result of receiving our total County allocation in January 2019. Expenditures for
September were $4,240,243.00 bringing our total expenses for the first 9 months to $38,232,544.00 that is 60% of our anticipated
expenditures for the calendar year. (The Financial Reports are attached to the original minutes in the Executive Unit.)
Motion to recommend approval of the Board Voucher and Expenditure Reports for September 2019 to the full Board.
MOTION: E. Caraballo / SECOND: R. Blue / AYES: R. Blue, C. Bryant, E. Caraballo, R. Fowler, B. Gohlstin, K. Kern-Pilch, S.
Killpack, M. Rodas, S. Rosenbaum, H. Snider, M. Step / NAYS: None / ABSTAIN: None / Motion passed.
5. CONTRACTS
Ms. Harrison highlighted agenda process sheets for agreements listed below, answered questions, and provided clarification for
committee members.
a) Youth-Led Prevention Funding for the Teen Institute Program - $22,474.00
- Recovery Resources

[E. Kirkland arrived.]

Mr. Larry Smith, Jr., Director of Programs, reported that the Teen Institute Program is also labeled Casey’s Kids in honor
of Casey Coleman, a longtime Cleveland Broadcaster. He noted that Youth-Led Prevention is a planned sequence of
activities that, through the practice and application of evidence-based prevention principles, policies, practices, strategies
and programs, is intended to inform, educate, develop skills, alter risk behaviors, affect environmental factors and/or
provide referrals to other services. The purpose of the Teen Institute Program is to build leadership skills in teens and
reinforce the decision to be drug-free. This program provides adolescent leaders with tools and information regarding
high risk behaviors, and then engages them in designing and delivering programming for their peers that uses this
knowledge to shape behavior change. Peer prevention is provided through healthy drug-free lifestyles by having students
participate in programs and activities that provide safe environments and positive adult involvement. The students are
positive peer role models for younger students to demonstrate that they are a needed and valuable part of the program.
Since 1981, Recovery Resources’ Teen Institute’s overall goal encourages students from Cuyahoga County to participate
in training opportunities throughout the year in order to learn how to effectively implement prevention programs. Through
this program, 20 Peer Led Leaders will be able to serve up to 500 youth.
b) Acceptance of Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Overdose to Action Grant Funds from the Cuyahoga
County Board of Health (CCBOH) - $97,064.00
Ms. Beth Pfohl, Grants Officer, reported that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has awarded the
Cuyahoga County Board of Health an Overdose Data to Action (OD2A) grant. OD2A is a three year cooperative funding
agreement that focuses on the complex nature of the opioid overdose epidemic. The funding addresses the need for an
interdisciplinary, comprehensive, and cohesive public health approach. These funds will support the CCBOH in obtaining
high-quality, comprehensive, and timely data on overdose morbidity and mortality to inform prevention, response and
linkage efforts. The project is designed to ensure that the CCBOH has the data to inform its prevention and response
efforts to combat the opioid addiction crisis.
The CCBOH selected the ADAMHS Board as a partner to share its expertise in the field of substance abuse and in
training community members, particularly law enforcement. The ADAMHS Board will leverage its experience working
with persons with Opioid Use Disorder (OUD), and families of Overdose (OD) victims, by hiring a grant funded OUD
Specialist. This individual will represent the Board on the Opioid Fatality Review Committee attending monthly meetings
for case review. The staff member will conduct interviews with survivors/surviving family members who provide consent.
This aggregated data will assist in prioritizing recommendations, developing solutions, implementing action plans, and
monitoring progress.
The Board will also expand the scope of existing training in three areas: 1) Public safety forces will be educated regarding
programs and services available for the OUD population; 2) existing Public Awareness Community Forums will be
expanded to educate residents about addiction; and 3) training for corrections officers, court personnel and others

Page 2 of 6

 Committee of the Whole Meeting Minutes

October 23, 2019

involved in correctional facilities will be enhanced to help them recognize and respond to persons with opioid addiction
and offer strategies for support.
Ms. Sharon Rosenbaum inquired as to the priority of the grant funded OUD Specialist position. Ms. Pfohl stated that the
priority of this individual is to interview survivors and/or family members of OD survivors to provide qualitative data to the
Opioid Fatality Review Committee to better inform the larger surveillance efforts in Cuyahoga County.
Ms. Mary Step inquired about the predominant use of qualitative data collection relative to the amount of valuable
quantitative data as well that would be available from hospital emergency departments such as St. Vincent Charity and/or
the provider agency, Stella Maris, that would inform this same purpose. Ms. Pfohl reported that there is an enormous
amount of data collection from several sources with Case Western Reserve University (CWRU) as the main evaluator of
this data collection. Although the ADAMHS Board will only be providing the scope of work requested by the CCBOH, the
overall results of this data collection should be available for all providers and/or contractors to review over the next three
years.
c) Acceptance of OhioMHAS Grant Funding for Psychotropic Drug Reimbursement - $32,290.00
- Cuyahoga County Sheriff’s Department
d) Community Transition Program (CTP) – Expansion of Linkage Services to include Substance Use Disorders $651,280.72
- FrontLine Service
Ms. Tolbert, Assistant Chief Clinical Officer, reported that the CTP connects clients released from prison with Serious
Mental Illness (SMI) and or Substance Use Disorders (SUD) that are being released from prison to behavioral health
services in the community. This program provides support and assistance to improve each person’s ability to successfully
reintegrate back into the community. She noted that FrontLine Service is the sole provider of the CTP for the adult prison
population who are returning to Cuyahoga County. She noted that the CTP started as Mental Health Prison Reentry, a
pilot program with FrontLine Service in July, 2018. FrontLine Service is expanding the CTP to include referrals to those
in need of SUD treatment and services.
Mr. Killpack inquired as to how the referrals will flow. Mr. Smith, Jr. reported that based on previous referral amounts,
the program estimates to receive 180 referrals and serve approximately 50% of those referrals. The OhioMHAS CTP
works with offenders prior to their release from prison to assure continuity of care. Individuals with SMI and SUD continue
to experience various barriers to successful reintegration. The contracted agency will receive referrals from the Ohio
Department of Corrections (ODRC) community linkage workers and link those offenders with community mental health
and/or SUD agencies.
Motion to recommend approval of Contracts (as listed above) to the full Board.
MOTION: R. Blue / SECOND: S. Killpack / AYES: R. Blue, C. Bryant, E. Caraballo, R. Fowler, B. Gohlstin, K. Kern-Pilch, S. Killpack,
E. Kirkland, M. Rodas, S. Rosenbaum, H. Snider, M. Step / NAYS: None / ABSTAIN: None / Motion passed.
6. CONTRACT AMENDMENT
a) Amendment to Resolution 19-07-03 for FFY2020 Opportunities for Ohioans with Disabilities (OOD), Case Services
Contract - $2,327,271.99
- Jewish Family Service Association - $336,913.55
- Recovery Resources - $415,358.44
b) Amendment to Resolution 18-11-08 for Awarding OhioMHAS Behavioral Health/Criminal Justice (BH/CJ) Linkages
Program Funding - $142,666.00
- Recovery Resources
Mr. Smith, Jr. reported that that Community Based Correctional Facility (CBCF) provides a sentencing option that diverts
appropriate male felons from the state prison system. The program aims to aid offenders in making positive behavioral

Page 3 of 6

 Committee of the Whole Meeting Minutes

October 23, 2019

and lifestyle changes to decrease the likelihood of continued criminal behavior. CBCF programs give offenders an
opportunity to remain in their community while addressing such issues as mental health needs, substance abuse, thinking
and decision-making skills, education, employment, anger management, and other life skills.
Recovery Resources was awarded $48,000.00 for Calendar Year (CY) 2019 to provide services in the CBCF. In
SFY2020, funding through the OhioMHAS BH/CJ allocation to the ADAMHS Board is available to maintain and expand
Recovery Resources’ services in the CBCF. Unspent CY2019 Board funds of $24,000.00 for the second half of CY2019
will be rescinded. The agency will be awarded $142,666.00 to expand services with OhioMHAS funding through June
30, 2020.
Mr. Smith, Jr. noted that Recovery Resources shall provide monthly, quarterly and annual data to the ADAMHS Board
on the following elements: number of people referred, referral sources, number of clients assessed, number of clients
ineligible/refused services, diagnosis, numbers served, type of service provided and type of contact and follow-up.
Ms. Caraballo inquired as to whether individuals being referred to this program are incarcerated. Mr. Smith, Jr. noted
that the CBCF provides a sentencing option that diverts appropriate males felons from the state prison system.
Mr. Killpack inquired as to the name of the trauma educational curriculum that is being utilized in the BH/CJ Linkages
Program. Ms. Tolbert indicated that she is not aware of the name; however this is an evidence-based program that is
followed through set of guidelines. She noted that she will inquire around such and report back to the committee.
Dr. Fowler inquired about the position involved with the screening of referred CBCF clients to provide linkage to
community services to clients who are identified as having mental health or addiction treatment needs. Ms. Tolbert
reported that a Licensed Independent Social Worker (LISW) provides services in the CBCF; however, Recovery
Resources will utilize this funding to dedicate one Bachelor level staff to act as a liaison and provide the following: mental
health screenings, provide linkage to community based services, provide educational services in a group setting and
participate in treatment team meetings. Recovery Resources is also looking to expand services to include a trauma
education group and peer support services.
c) Amendment to Resolution 18-11-08 for Stella Maris for Recovery Housing Network - $40,000.00
Motion to recommend approval of Contract Amendments (as listed above) to the full Board.
MOTION: H. Snider / SECOND: R. Blue / AYES: R. Blue, C. Bryant, E. Caraballo, R. Fowler, B. Gohlstin, K. Kern-Pilch, S. Killpack,
E. Kirkland, M. Rodas, S. Rosenbaum, H. Snider, M. Step / NAYS: None / ABSTAIN: None / Motion passed.
7. IDENTIFY CONSENT AGENDA
Rev. Gohlstin identified the following elements to include into the Consent Agenda: Acceptance of the September 2019 Finance
Reports, Contracts and Contract Amendments.
8. PRESENTATION OF CY2020 ADAMHS BOARD BUDGET
Mr. Osiecki acknowledged the hard work and efforts of staff to compile the information contained in the CY2020 ADAMHS Board
Budget binders distributed. He summarized the cover letter that identified the content of the binders as a first working draft of the
CY2020 funding recommendations as a proposal for Board member’s consideration. He reported that the draft material was
prepared and disseminated to Board members to allow for adequate time to review the recommendations and have questions
answered. He noted that for nine of the provider agencies, the outcomes portion of the material has not been completed; but will be
completed within the next few days and will be forwarded to Board members in the near future.
The proposed budget was based on the continued flat funding of $39 million from the Cuyahoga County Health & Human Services
levies. Although the Board’s overall budget is slightly over $64 million, it continues to be strained to support all the mental health
and addiction recovery needs of our community causing Board staff to make difficult decisions regarding previously funded programs
while focusing on the Board’s priorities. Mr. Osiecki acknowledged and highlighted that decisions regarding CY2020 funding
increases or decreases in various programs or services was based on CY2019 performance, in addition to the uniqueness of each
program or service.

Page 4 of 6

 Committee of the Whole Meeting Minutes

October 23, 2019

 Mr. Osiecki asked Board members to e-mail or call him directly with questions or concerns regarding the CY2020 funding
recommendations so that answers to questions can be provided before the next Board meeting.
 Board members were reminded that the October 30, 2019 General Meeting will be held offsite and hosted by Murtis Taylor
Human Services System in the Family and Community Resource Center Building, 13411 Union Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio
44120.
 All were also asked to bring their CY2020 ADAMHS Board Budget binders with them to the General Meeting.
Committee input:
- Mr. Snider inquired about the status of the investigation regarding a provider agency that closed last year and encouraged
staff to obtain written correspondence regarding this matter.
- Ms. Rosenbaum inquired about the increase in the CY2020 Board’s operational budget. Mr. Osiecki reported that he is
anticipating hiring two additional staff to facilitate and monitor program audits to assist provider agencies with maintaining
standards; in addition to utilization review (UR); filling vacant positions; changing other positions and staff raises.
- Ms. Kirkland asked about the status of the ADAMHS Board’s administrative office lease. Ms. Fischer, Chief Administrative
Officer, noted that the Board’s lease will be increasing during the middle of CY2020; thus being factored into the increase
in the Board’s operational budget. Mr. Osiecki noted that various building upgrades will be completed in the near future;
which include, but are not limited to, the Board’s reception area doorway; adding security swipe entry; new carpeting;
painting; polishing the marble walls; and adding tile in the Kitchens.
- Ms. Kirkland inquired about the status of Cleveland UMADAOP. Ms. Harrison noted that if a provider agency only receives
grant funding, they will not be included in the CY2020 ADAMHS Board Budget Binder; however they were included in the
State Opioid Response (SOR) grant funding request; of which the Board has not received a response.
- Ms. Step stated that the CY2020 Budget binder contains an extraordinary collection of information; that over the years, has
been getting more informative and streamlined, which is to be commended; and could be a significant source of information
regarding other questions such as what is occurring in Cuyahoga County.
9. OLD/NEW BUSINESS
 CY2020 Cuyahoga County Budget Presentation
Mr. Osiecki reported that he presented the Board’s CY2020 budget request to Cuyahoga County’s Committee of the Whole on
Thursday, October 17, 2019. He noted that the Board requested additional funding from the County for crisis services as well
as the Residential Assistance Program (RAP). Mr. Osiecki indicated that Council members had some confusion between RAP
and Recovery Housing and reported that they requested additional material regarding OhioMHAS funding for targeted programs,
which he is in process of finalizing. Once completed, this material will be forwarded to their attention for review.
 OACBHA Crisis Services Academy
Mr. Osiecki reported that Ms. Tolbert, Mr. Smith, Jr., two representatives from the community and himself will be attending the
OACHBA Crisis Services Academy on Monday, October 28, 2019 in Columbus, Ohio. He noted that additional funding is
available for crisis infrastructure. Experts from around the country will be speaking to attendees on crisis services to gain insight
and ideas as to how to utilize this funding for infrastructure in Ohio.
 Opioid Settlement
Mr. Osiecki stated that the ADAMHS Board will be receiving approximately $10.5 million from the Opioid settlement; however
the original ask was for $17.1 million for programs. These funds will be used for expanding Stella Maris residential treatment
beds that will be housed at Y-Haven; St. Vincent Charity Medical Center to expand their Intensive Outpatient Program (IOP)
and Partial Hospitalization Program (PHP); and Ascent ED to expand their peer support program in each of the emergency
rooms in Cuyahoga County.
Mr. Osiecki reported that an additional Opioid settlement has been announced; whereby Cuyahoga County will be receiving
65% and Summit County will be receiving 35%. As a result, Cuyahoga County Council will be setting up a separate fund; with
decisions regarding these funds to be determined in the future. ADAMHS Board staff have requested to participate when
decisions regarding these funds are discussed.

Page 5 of 6

 Committee of the Whole Meeting Minutes

-

October 23, 2019

Mr. Snider highlighted a play titled “Pipeline” that he attended at the Cleveland Playhouse. He noted that this profound
play details the events of what transpires in the school system when there are no social workers to impact the quality of life
for students and teachers alike.
Mr. Snider also provided accolades to Board staff for their efforts with the Roads to Recovery Conference that transpired
on Monday, October 21, 2019.

There being no further business, the meeting adjourned at 5:15 p.m.
Submitted by:

Linda Lamp, Executive Assistant

Approved by:

Rev. Benjamin F. Gohlstin, Sr., Chairperson, ADAMHS Board of Cuyahoga County

Page 6 of 6

 