THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LEGAL & GOVERNMENT RELATIONS COMMITTEE
June 12, 2019
Present: Committee Members: Vanessa L. Whiting, John M. Hairston, Jr.
Other Trustees:

Thomas McDonald, Dr. J.B. Silvers

Staff:

Dr. Akram Boutros, Laura McBride, Michael Phillips, Jane Platten,
Craig Richmond, Dr. Sandra Werner, Michael Dalton

The meeting was called to order at 12:30 p.m. by Ms. Whiting. The minutes are written in a format
conforming to the printed meeting agenda for the convenience of correlation, recognizing that some of
the items were discussed out of sequence.
I.

The Committee approved the minutes of the March 13, 2019 meeting.

II.

Consent Items (Acted upon following the discussion described below).
1.

Recommendation to the Board of Trustees of The MetroHealth System for Approval of
the Continued Appointment of Certain Medical Staff Members
Dr. Werner shared with the Committee the recent provision of Section 3.1.10 added in
2017 to the Medical Staff Bylaws concerning a requirement by MetroHealth Medical
Staff to be Board certified/eligible to practice, which included completing a certain
number of modules, attestations, and similar processes. In reviewing the most recent
credentialing cycle with the various Department Chairs, it was determined that several
Medical Staff members were not in compliance with the Bylaws but are still eligible to
be Board certified to practice as long as they complete the requirements within a year.
Board approval needs to be obtained for the individuals listed on the attachment to the
recommendation in order to continue to practice at MetroHealth and, if they do not
complete the requirements before June 2020, the staff members listed would no longer
be able to practice at MetroHealth. Ms. Whiting requested approval of the continued
appointment of certain Medical Staff members.
Upon motion made and seconded, the Committee resolved to recommend approval of the
continued medical staff appointment and privileges of the providers identified in Exhibit
A until such time as their applicable board certification(s) is reactivated (at which time
their appointment and privileges will be reinstated in full) or through June 30, 2020,
whichever occurs earlier.

III.

Discussion Items


Government Relations Update – Michael Dalton
Mr. Dalton reported that the Care Innovation and Community Improvement Program
(CICIP) remains in the Budget as presented first in the Governor’s Budget, the House

 Budget, and lastly the Senate, which is MetroHealth’s physician upper payment limit
program. Another opportunity for a change to the Budget is possible and the expectation
is CICIP will remain and be part of the Budget as signed into law. The Budget includes:
the Hospital Upper Payment Limit program or what is known as the hospital franchise
fee with unanimous support from both the House and the Senate. The balance of the
Government Relations report was reserved for Executive Session.


Risk Management Report Update – Laura McBride
Ms. McBride’s report on pending litigation and claims was reserved for Executive
Session.



Bylaws/Governance Committee Update – Mike Phillips
Mr. Phillips’ report was reserved for Executive Session.

A motion was unanimously passed by roll call vote to hold an Executive Session to discuss trade secrets
and pending litigation.
Following the Executive Session, the meeting reopened.
IV.

Action Items - None

There being no further business, the meeting adjourned at 1:45 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,

Michael Phillips
Senior Vice President and Chief Legal Officer

2

 