CWPT&G Draft 8-13-15

GATEWAY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION OF GREATER CLEVELAND
Minutes of a Meeting of the
Board of Trustees
Held on August 12, 2015
3:00 o'clock p.m.
Offices of
Climaco, Wilcox, Peca, Tarantino & Garofoli Co., L.P.A.
Cleveland, Ohio

There being a quorum present, Mr. Offtermatt called the meeting to
order at approximately 3:10 p.m. All Board members were present:
Timothy Offtermatt, Matt Carroll, Tracey Nichols, William Reidy and
Emmanuel Glover. Also present were Todd Greathouse, Brian Kelly, and
Daniella Nunnally of Gateway, David Faller, Consultant from Osborn
Engineering, and Dennis Wilcox, General Counsel. Present from the
County was Michael King. Present from the Cleveland Indians were
Dennis Lehman, Neil Weiss, Joseph Znidarsic, Ken Stefanov, Jim Folk,
Andrew Miller and Alex King.
Present from the press were Andrew
Tobias for Northeast Ohio Media Group and Kevin Kleps from Crain’s
Cleveland.
The first item of business was approval of the Minutes. Upon motion
by Mr. Carroll, seconded by Ms. Nichols, the Minutes of the May 13,
2015 meeting were unanimously approved.
Mr. Offtermatt then asked for any public comment. There being none,
he moved into the first agenda item that being a Sin Tax update. Mr.
Offtermatt noted that the recently voter approved Sin Tax was now
effective for collection as of August 1, 2015. He also reported on
the request from Gateway to the County to fund expenses related to
reviewing Major Capital Repairs requests, including consultant and
legal costs. This request for $100,000 was approved by the Board of
Control of the County and Mr. Offtermatt thanked the County for the
funding.
He then summarized the Board’s review of Major Capital
requests from the teams, including in this case, the Cleveland
Indians, and turned the meeting over to Todd Greathouse for his
report.
Mr. Greathouse first reviewed ongoing Quicken Loans Arena Major
Capital Items previously approved the Board. He reported that the
Command Center contract was originally estimated at $3,090,000, as
approved by the Board. The scope of work was prepared in order to
prepare an RFP which was sent to 3 qualified companies. Proposals

 from $1.9 to $3.2 million were received, and it was determined that
Netech was the best responsive and responsible proposal and Netech
was also the lowest bid. On July 21, 2015 Gateway provided a letter
of intent to proceed with Netech. A contract was finalized as of
August 6, 2015 and the project is expected to complete no later than
October 23, 2015.
He next reported on the roof system repair, which was estimated at
$4.174 million. This was approved by the Board at the August 20,
2014 meeting as well. A scope of work and RFP are being prepared.
There is an issue with the system being considered because of the
weight.
Mr. Greathouse turned that item over to Dave Faller,
Gateway’s consulting engineer, for further comment. Mr. Faller noted
that in order to get a maximum useful life extension of 10 to 20
years, the Cavaliers had been trying to use a Bitumen roof system.
However, that system puts too much weight on the structure and they
are now looking at an alternate roofing system. He is hoping to have
design guidelines within the next 2 weeks for an RFP, with an award
of a contract to follow within a month. Mr. Offtermatt asked Mr.
Faller if there was enough time to get this roof repair completely
done in the Fall. Mr. Faller indicated they would try to do the end
domes and high domes of the roofing this Fall and then restart the
project in the Spring to finish it. He did also indicated that work
can be performed in Winter. However, he believes because of timing
that it would be necessary to do both the Fall and the Spring
mobilization for the project.
Mr. Greathouse then reported on the Progressive Field Phase I
alteration close out. Andrew Miller of the Indians noted that the
Phase I close out is virtually complete. There are just a small
number of invoices left. Mr. Miller noted that the Phase I project
was designed to connect the Ballpark to those outside the Ballpark
and the surrounding area and that the Phase II project to be
presented to the Board was essentially to extend fan enjoyment in a
similar way to other parts of the Ballpark.
Mr. Miller of the Indians then presented the proposed Indians Phase
II alterations. The Master Plan Phase II Overview presented by Mr.
Miller is attached to the Minutes as Exhibit A. In summary, Phase II
is designed to continue the theme for Phase I including opening the
concourse to the field, adding team branding/history, adding elements
authentic to Cleveland, adding unique targeted seating options,
adding wayfinding and neighborhood concepts, reducing seating
capacity, adding a Season Ticket Holder Lounge and renovating 10
suites behind home plate.
As part of the master plan summary there were certain items,
including suite renovations and concession/food and beverage
equipment that are part of the Indians Major Capital items which were
previously deferred. Mr. Offtermatt asked if these were now being
requested to be included in the Major Capital submittal from the
team. Mr. Miller indicated that was the case, which is based on a
2

 letter sent on July 20, 2015 from the Cleveland Indians to Gateway,
including an additional $701,204 of items to be added to the Major
Capital request. Mr. Offtermatt then complimented the team on the
Phase I improvements to the Ballpark.
At this time Mr. Greathouse reviewed the Major Capital repairs
request of the Indians that was first considered at the May 13, 2015
meeting.
He presented the Board with 2 alternates showing the
initial request and the second request with the additional $701,204
of items included, based on the July 20, 2015 letter. He noted that
some of these items individually were less than $500,000, but they
were part of an overall system that exceeded the $500,000 threshold,
a portion of which are being deferred. After several questions by Mr.
Offtermatt to clarify this, Mr. Greathouse explained that these were
items that needed to be done while the alteration work was being
done, as opposed to coming back later and requiring work to be redone
at a potentially higher cost. Mr. Folk then indicated that all of
these system repairs would be done within the time of the Major
Capital needs. Ms. Nichols noted that this is part of the overall
system based on the engineering that has been presented and Mr. Folk
agreed and said the Indians preferred to do these Major Capital items
while the suites are open for alterations rather than come back and
do them later.
After further discussion from the Board, Ms. Nichols made a motion
which was seconded by Mr. Glover to approve the resolution 2015-2.
The Board then unanimously adopted the following resolution by a 5-0
vote.
RESOLUTION NO. 2015-2
REGARDING RECOMMENDATION WITH RESPECT TO
REQUEST FOR MAJOR CAPITAL REPAIRS FROM
THE CLEVELAND INDIANS BASEBALL
COMPANY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
WHEREAS, Gateway Economic Development Corporation of Greater
Cleveland (“Gateway”) has agreed to provide for Major Capital Repairs
as defined in the Lease (the “Lease”) between Gateway and Cleveland
Indians Baseball Company Limited Partnership (the “Cleveland
Indians”); and
WHEREAS, the Board of Gateway has previously notified the City
of Cleveland, Ohio (“City”) and Cuyahoga County (“County”) that
Gateway does not have sufficient funds to pay Major Capital Repairs
as defined in the Lease and requested the respective appointing
authorities of Gateway, the City and the County, to consider such
funding of Major Capital Repairs; and
WHEREAS, on May 9, 2012 the Board adopted Resolution No. 2012-1
setting forth its policies and procedures with respect to Major
Capital Repairs (“Policy”); and
3

 WHEREAS, the Cleveland Indians have submitted a request for
approval of Major Capital Repairs to the Ballpark under the Lease;
and
WHEREAS, the Board has reviewed such request and pursuant to the
Policy has received information from its professional consultant
recommending approval of such items as Major Capital Repairs; and
WHEREAS, the Gateway Board desires to recommend approval of the
Major Capital Repairs request from the Cleveland Indians as further
described in Exhibit A attached hereto.
NOW, BE IT RESOLVED, that the
behalf of Gateway, finds that the
from the Cleveland Indians for the
hereto, are Major Capital Repairs
recommended for approval.

Board of Trustees of Gateway, on
requested Major Capital Repairs
Ballpark, attached as Exhibit A
under the Lease and are hereby

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that this Resolution, including the
attached Exhibit A, constitutes Gateway’s recommendation under the
Policy and shall be forwarded to the City and the County forthwith
and Gateway shall continue to provide information to the City and the
County as requested to support this recommendation.
BE IT FINALLY RESOLVED, that the Board respectfully requests the
County or City make a decision as to this recommendation as soon as
possible but no later than December 31, 2015.
_________________
Mr. Greathouse then discussed inclusion issues and indicated that
Gateway was reviewing its practices and preparing MBE-FBE-CSB lists
in an updated fashion. He then asked Daniella Nunnally to explain
the intake and the month-to-month reports that Gateway has been
preparing.
Ms. Nunnally then passed out reports to the Board
summarizing performance of the Ballpark alterations and each of the
three Arena Major Capital projects to date, with regard to inclusion
efforts. The summaries for each contract are attached to the Minutes
as Exhibit B.
She noted that the original goals for the Indians Alterations
contract were 15% MBE, 7% FBE and 5% CSB. The Ballpark performance
under the Gilbane Contract was 25% MBE, 11% FBE and 2% CSB. When
adding money spent by the Indians outside the Gilbane contract, the
total of the Alteration Project was 21% MBE, 9% FBE and 4% CSB. Ms.
Nunnally then reviewed each of the three Arena Projects.
The
scoreboard performance was 2% MBE, 1 % FBE and 54% CSB for the nonspecialty items. The Bowl Sound System non-specialty work was 0%
MBE, 25% FBE and 28% CSB.
Finally, the Video Production nonspecialty work was 30% MBE, 18% FBE and 11% CSB. Mr. Offtermatt
4

 noted that the specialty items of the Arena reduced the amount of
available contracts to include in the inclusion goals.
Mr. Offtermatt asked about the ability to find qualified contractors
given all of the current construction work in the City. Ms. Nichols
observed that not every business wants to be certified and she did
note that in the last two years because of all of the construction,
at times there has been a lack of minority firms available to do
certain work, especially smaller projects.
Ms. Nichols then
explained some of the City processes looking at specialty items and
utilizing minority firms.
Mr. Offtermatt asked Mr. Greathouse to give a report on the
Republican Presidential debates at the Arena.
Mr. Greathouse
indicated that everything went well and functioned as it was supposed
to and thanked the Cleveland Police and other law enforcement for
their work.
The next meeting is scheduled for August 26, 2015, at which time the
Board will take up approval of Indians proposed Phase II alterations
and review the audit among any other business.
There being no further business before the Board, upon motion made by
Mr. Carroll and seconded by Ms. Nichols, the meeting was adjourned at
approximately 4:15 p.m.
APPROVED BY:
SECRETARY-TREASURER
_________________________

5

 