THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
FACILITIES & SPACE COMMITTEE
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
REGULAR MEETING MINUTES

DATE:

Monday, May 20, 2019

TIME:

4:00 p.m.

PLACE:

MetroHealth Medical Center
K107, Business Services Building

COMMITTEE
TRUSTEES:

Mr. Monnolly, Ms. Whiting, Ms. Anderson, Mr. Silvers

STAFF:

W. Jones, J. Platten, C. Richmond, Sonja Rajki, K. Dethloff

(ABSENT):

Mr. McDonald, Ms. Dee, A. Boutros, Dr. Brandt, B. Boulanger, M. Phillips,
M. Stern, J. Jacono

Mr. Monnolly called the regular meeting of the Facilities & Space Committee to order at 4:05 p.m. The
minutes are written in a format conforming to the printed meeting agenda for the convenience of
correlation, recognizing that some of the items were discussed out of sequence.
I.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES – MARCH 25, 2019 MEETING
The minutes of the March 25, 2019 Facilities and Space Committee were approved as
presented.

II.

DISCUSSION ITEMS
A. Ms. Dethloff provided an update on the status of the Facilities Report to the Board. Ms.
Dethloff reported on several electrical outages due to unusually strong winds or fallen trees
causing power lines to go down. Repairs were made to a couple of generators at the main
campus. Plumbing issues within the Towers were corrected to comply with current codes.
The FM management team has been working with the construction manager on the new
hospital addressing utility and egress issues as excavation and placement of caissons work
occasionally impacts hospital operations. FM managers and the HGA engineers have
started to educate our staff on the design and operation of the new central utility plant.
Currently, there are four manager vacancies and four skilled trade vacancies within the
department. Three other skilled trades workers are expected to retire within the next three
months. The vacancy rate is up slightly at 7%.

 Facilities & Space Committee
May 20, 2019 Meeting Minutes

B. Mr. Jones provided an update on a couple of project activities and project next steps.
Turner Construction sponsored Founder’s Day 2019 for building a better neighborhood
which occurred in early May that involved painting, landscaping, doors and windows of
five (5) neighborhood homes. There were two community outreach events that occurred.
The first event took place on April 11, 2019 that involved different trades with
approximately 75 attendees and the 2nd event occurred on May 14, 2019 with
approximately 100 attendees.
On April 9 th, 2019, EMS experienced a high-volume day with no interruption to patient
care or to construction with the planned temporary flow and excellent coordination by
David Yarmesch, MetroHealth’s EMS Coordinator and Gary Farthing of Turner
Construction.
As of May 15, 2019, 10% of the caissons were installed (32 of 320) which equals out to
approximately 3 per day. Approximately 4,300 truckloads equaling to 43,000 cubic yards
of earth was removed during the excavation phase. There were approximately 240 H-Piles
installed for the retention wall equaling 6,850 square feet of wood logging. There were
approximately 209 loads of concrete that was poured for the caissons. As of May 17, 2019,
the first lane of View Road was poured.
Mr. Jones indicated that an exterior mockup will be installed on the quad premises
which will be accessible by the design/construction team for construction evaluation and
will be visible to patients, visitors and staff. MetroHealth’s Stakeholders Meeting event
is scheduled for June 28, 2019. GMP C Development is scheduled for July 2019.
III.

CONSENT ITEMS
A. Recommendation to the President and CEO of The MetroHealth System to approve the
further amended Agreement with Turner Construction Company as Construction Manager
At Risk for Campus Transformation and Set the Guaranteed Maximum Price for Phase B.
The Committee approved the recommendation for full Board action.
B. Recommendation to the President and CEO of The MetroHealth System to approve the
further amended Agreement for Medical Equipment Planning, Audio/Visual, Technology
and Security Consulting Services with Mitchell Planning Associates for the Campus
Transformation Project.
The Committee approved the recommendation for full Board action.
C. Recommendation to the President and CEO of The MetroHealth System to approve the
further amended Agreement for Architectural and Engineering Services with HGA
Architects and Engineers, LLC as the Master Architect for Campus Transformation.
The Committee approved the recommendation for full Board action.
D. Recommendation to the President and CEO of The MetroHealth System to approve the
capital funding for the Improvements to the Main Campus Cafeteria and Kitchen.
The Committee approved the recommendation for full Board action.

 Facilities & Space Committee
May 20, 2019 Meeting Minutes

E. Recommendation to the President and CEO of The MetroHealth System to approve the
Lease for Space Located in Cleveland, Ohio.
The Committee approved the recommendation for full Board action.
Mr. Monnolly abstained from voting on this resolution.
F.

Recommendation to the President and CEO of The MetroHealth System to approve the
amended Lease for a Community-Based Outpatient Care Location.
The Committee approved the recommendation for full Board action.

G. Recommendation to the President and CEO of The MetroHealth System to approve the
capital funding for Lease Improvements.
The Committee approved the recommendation for full Board action.
IV.

NON-CONSENT / ACTION ITEMS
None

There being no further business to come before the Committee, the meeting was adjourned at 5:00 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,

Walter B. Jones, Jr.
Senior Vice President, Campus Transformation

 