Cuyahoga County Monument Commission
Minutes
Thursday, November 14, 2019
8:00AM
Cuyahoga County Archives
3951 Perkins Avenue
1. Call to Order – Meeting of Thursday, November 14, 2019
The meeting was called to order at 8:10AM.
2. Attending:
Dr. Judith G. Cetina
Otilio Morales
Patti Choby
Patrick W. Hewitt
Joseph Nanni
Jill Paulsen
Juan Quirarte
Tiffany Burke
3. Welcome
4. Minutes from September 26, 2019 meeting approved – Motion by Joseph Nanni to approve minutes with
corrections. Motion seconded by Patrick Hewitt. All in favor.
5. Evaluation criteria for proposed projects – Patrick Hewitt provided a GIS map identifying County facilities.
Tiffany Burke obtained a County property list from Risk Management and will share with the group. All agreed
that projects must be vetted by Otilio Morales/Public Works and obtain approval prior to consideration by
Commission. Otilio Morales described Enterprise Asset Management (EAM) contract which provides
maintenance, work schedule, etc. services to maintain County property. Juan Quirarte recommended providing
technical guidelines, building preparation, etc. for artists planning on proposing a project.
Judy Cetina mentioned the value of including a historical background for buildings with installed projects. Jill
Paulsen is interested in coding who is being memorialized.
Patti Choby suggested the Commission may benefit from taking a tour of the Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Monument.
Working group is scheduled to meet on December 12, 2019 to complete draft of evaluation procedures.
6. By-Laws – Judy Cetina provided a by-laws resolution template for the Monument Commission. Joe Nanni
advised that the by-laws should include the creation of Chair and Vice-Chair positions. Judy Cetina

 recommended establishing a meeting schedule to include two annual meetings. Organizational meeting can be
held in January. Chair/Commission can call for a meeting with a notice of two weeks.
7. Katherine Chilcote Communications – Joe Nanni will work with Jerad Zibritosky (Law Department), John Myers
(Real Estate Manager, Public Works) and Otilio Morales (Facilities Superintendent, Public Works) to draft letter
to Ms. Chilcote. Letter will address financial burden and safety concerns of the mural.
8. Good and Welfare
9. Adjournment
With no further business to discuss, Judy Cetina adjourned the meeting, without objection, at 9:16 AM. Motion
approved by unanimous consent.

 