ALCOHOL, DRUG ADDICTION AND MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES BOARD OF CUYAHOGA COUNTY
NOMINATING COMMITTEE MINUTES
APRIL 10, 2019
Committee Members Present: Elsie Caraballo, Reginald C. Blue, Ph.D., J. Robert Fowler, Ph.D., Rev. Benjamin F.
Gohlstin, Sr., Katie Kern-Pilch, MA, ATR-BC, Harvey A. Snider, Esq., / Board member: Mary M Step, Ph.D.
Absent: None
Board Staff Present: Scott Osiecki, C.E.O., Tami Fischer, Felicia Harrison, Linda Lamp, Maggie Tolbert
1. Call to Order
Elsie Caraballo, Nominating Committee Chair, called the meeting to order at 3:07 p.m. in the Ohio Room.
2. Approval of Minutes
The minutes of the May 16, 2018 Nominating Committee Meeting were approved as submitted.
3. Reappointment Recommendation for 3 County Appointments
Ms. Caraballo, Committee Chair, referenced numerous documents detailing a review of ADAMHS Board of Director
Appointments. These documents included the following:
- A reference document titled “Recruitment of Board Members Policy”
- Board of Directors’ Appointment Term Roster
- Board of Director Roster – Background / Affiliation Data
- Board of Directors Composition
Ms. Caraballo noted that currently there are three Board Member vacant seats, which are comprised of one County
vacancy and two State vacancies. Based upon information shared, committee members also referenced three County
appointments that will be expiring on June 30, 2019. The referenced Board Members will be completing their first term as
a county appointment. Mr. Scott Osiecki, CEO, noted that the Board Members have the ability to serve two terms for the
County and two terms for the State, with the additional ability to alternate between the two types of appointments.
Based upon input shared, committee members agreed to recommend two of the three County reappointment candidates
for the two existing state vacancies. Additionally, one County reappointment candidate was recommended for
reappointment by the County. Hence, once these reappointment recommendations are finalized, three county
appointment vacancies will remain.
Motion to recommend approving the agreed upon OhioMHAS appointment candidates and agreed upon County
appointment candidate to the full Board. MOTION: B. Gohlstin / SECOND: M. Step / AYES: E. Caraballo, R. Fowler,
B. Gohlstin, K. Kern-Pilch, H. Snider, M. Step / NAYS: None / Motion passed.
4. Review of ADAMHS Board of Director Appointment Term Roster
Ms. Caraballo referenced the Board of Director Roster – Background / Affiliation Data, which was updated as of February
1, 2019, to reflect the diversity of individuals that comprise the Board. Ohio Revised Code (ORC) §340.02 requires that at
least one member shall fill each of the following categories:
- A clinician with experience in the delivery of mental health services
- At least one person who have received or is receiving mental health services
- At least one person who is a parent or other relative of a person has receive or is receiving mental health
services
- A clinician with experience in the delivery of addiction services
- At least one person who has received or is receiving addiction services
- At least one person who is a parent or other relative of a person has received or is receiving addiction
services.
1

 Nominating Committee Minutes

April 10, 2019

Based upon discussion regarding next steps for recruitment of potential candidates to recommend to the County for
ADAMHS Board of Director appointment, committee members comprised a list of potential candidates to approach
regarding their interest in this matter. Various committee members also referenced a number of organizations and/or
colleagues that will be approached in an effort to recruit as potential candidates for Board of Director appointment. These
organizations and/or colleagues were highlighted as the following:
- Chief Executive Officer of a small business
- Youth Advisory Board Member
- Junior League
- Hispanic Youth Professional Group
- Attorneys
- Architects
- Law Enforcement
- Accountants
Mr. Osiecki highlighted that a potential candidate for Board of Director appointment should include an individual with a
financial background. He also shared that he will inform committee members when the application process has been
posted to the Board’s website and Facebook page.
5. Old/New Business – None

There being no further business, the meeting adjourned at 3:47 p.m.
Submitted by:

Linda Lamp, Executive Assistant

Approved by:

Elsie Caraballo, Nominating Committee Chair

2

 