 

   

American Legion American Veterans Disabied American Veterans Veterans of Foreign Wars Vietnam Veterans ofAincrica

MEI. BAHER FRANK POCCI CHRISTOPHER GRAU CLAYTON E. IIZELL BOB POTTS
COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER

Cuyahoga County

JON REISS - - -
Veterans Servrce 

Ph: 216.698.2600 0 Fax: 216.698.2650
Email: vscmail@cuyahogacounty.us
1849 Prospect Avenue 0 Suite 150 0 Cleveland, OH 44115

MINUTES

August 7, 2019 9:30 am.

PRESENT:

Mel Baher, Vice President

Christopher Grau, Secretary

Bob Potts, Commissioner

Jon Reiss, Executive Director

Mary Kitko, Executive Secretary

Feronne Williams, Administrative Coordinator
Brian Gutkoski, Asst. County Prosecutor

EXCUSED: Clay Uzell, President

Frank Pocci, Commissioner

VISITORS: None.

PURPOSE: GENERAL MEETING

The meeting was called to order by Vice President Mel Baher followed by the Pledge of Allegiance.

A motion was made by Bob Potts and seconded by Chris Grau to dispense with the reading of the Consent
Agenda and to accept the agenda with the necessary corrections and/or additions. (All Commissioners
have a copy of the minutes.)

AYES: Baher, Grau, Potts. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

COMMISSIONERS REPORTS:
Christopher Grau DAV

July 3rd I attended the Public Meeting.

July 10th attended the Appeals Meeting.

July 17th I attended the Public Meeting.

July 24th I attended the Appeals Meeting.

June 26-27?h I attended the OHDVS Summer Conference. I submitted a request to volunteer for
the organization?s Technology Committee.

Note: There was no DAV Chapter 108 meeting in June and we are recessed until September 

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886? Internet 0 

Frank Pocci AMVETS
No report submitted.

Bob Potts VVA
0 July 3rd I attended the Open Public Meeting.
July The chapter meeting was cancelled until September.
July 10?? attended the Appeals Meeting.
July 17?? 1 attended the Open Public Meeting.
0 July 24?? I attended the Appeals Meeting.
0 July 29?? After a doctor?s appointment I stopped by and visited with staff.
0 August 15? The chapter meeting was cancelled until September.

Mel Baher American Legion

- I attended all scheduled meetings of the during the month of July 2019. Following is a
report of my activities outside of the Cuyahoga County Veterans Service Commission for the
month of July 2019.

0 Wednesday, July 3rd The American Legion 13?? District Council, to be held at American Legion
Post 304, in Garfield Hts, Ohio, was cancelled by the District Commander.

0 Thursday, July I volunteered with the July festivities held at American Legion Post 91 for
the annual City of Berea ?reworks display.

0 Thursday, July 11th attended the American Legion Post 91 membership meeting. The meeting
began at 7:00 pm. and I presented the current membership report, as Post 15? Vice Commander.

0 Monday, July I attended the American Legion 13?? District Executive Board meeting, held
at American Legion Post 469, in Cleveland, Ohio. The meeting began at 7:30 pm. I presented
the June 2019 ?nance report for executive board approval, as District Finance Officer.

0 Thursday, July 25?? I attended American Legion Post 91 executive board meeting held at 7:00
pm. I presented the 2020 membership report as First Vice Commander.

- Monday, July 29?? August my wife and I volunteered in Post 91 kitchen while our cook
was on vacation. I ran the register while my wife prepared meals, and I am happy to report no one
reported for sick call.

Clay Uzell?w- VFW

0 July 3rd I attended the Open Public meeting.

0 July 10?? I attended the Appeals Meeting.

0 July 15?? I attended VFW Post 7563 meeting to discuss picnic plans for August. I draped charter
in remembrance of post member and Brother who passed.

0 July 17?? I attended the open public meeting.

0 July 19?? I attended the VFW National Convention in Orlando, Florida while serving on the
Veterans Service Committee. I attended all mandatory meetings of the Veterans Service
Resolutions Committee and attended all general business sessions.

0 July 24?? I was excused from the meeting due to Florida National Convention.

0 July 30?? I attended Past District 7 Presidents dinner at the Olive Garden Restaurant in Orange
Village.

OLD BUSINESS:
Two position descriptions were reviewed by the Board. Changes to the Executive Director position

description include changes in verbiage, agency titles, and union types. There were no changes made to
the Eligibility Specialist position description.

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886? Internet 0 

A motion was made by Bob Potts and seconded by Chris Grau to approve the updated position
descriptions for Executive Director and Eligibility Specialist as written.
AYES: Baher, Grau, Potts. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

The Executive Director researched purchasing grave markers for deceased veterans. The Commission has
decided not to move forward with the purchase of grave markers at this time.

The Executive Director presented a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between l-IandsOn Northeast
Ohio (HandsOn) and the Cuyahoga County Veterans Service Commission to collaborate on the
operations of the Homeless Stand-down.

A motion was made by Bob Potts and seconded by Chris Grau to accept the Memorandum of
Understanding between HandsOn Northeast Ohio and the Veterans Service Commission as written.
AYES: Baher, Grau, Potts. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

NEW BUSINESS:

The Executive Director discussed the plan to have all clients pick up their vouchers at the financial
workshops. All clients will be referred to the ?nancial workshops where they will receive their vouchers
upon completion. Clients that no call/no show for a workshop will be sanctioned for 90 days and unable
to re-apply until they have attended the workshop.

The Board discussed the new Policy for Purchase Manual presented by the Executive Director. The
manual is designed to create consistency in the ordering processes.

A motion was made by Bob Potts and seconded by Chris Grau to accept the Policy for Purchase Manual

as written.
AYES: Baher, Grau, Potts. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

A motion was made by Bob Potts and seconded by Chris Grau to approve Resolution 2019?12 providing
for purchase of marketing and advertising from The IX Center for 2019. Expenses will not exceed

$10,000.00 per year.
AYES: Baher, Grau, Potts. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

A motion was made by Bob Potts and seconded by Chris Grau to approve Resolution 2019-13 providing
for the purchase agreement between the Veterans Service Commission and FeedbackNow for the purpose
of having a customer feedback system available to the clients of the Cuyahoga County Veterans Service

Commission.
AYES: Baher,Grau, Potts. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

A motion was made by Bob Potts and seconded by Chris Grau to approve Resolution 2019-14 providing
for the purchase agreement between the Veterans Service Commission and Aldi?s Supermarket for the
purpose of issuing food cards, in lieu of vouchers, to clients as financial assistance.

AYES: Baher, Grau, Potts. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

A motion was made by Bob Potts and seconded by Chris Grau to approve Resolution 2019-15 providing
for the purchase agreement between the Veterans Service Commission and Iron Mountain Inc for the
purpose of having document destruction of personal identity information and the secure storage of agency
records as required by the Ohio Revised Code.

AYES: Baher, Grau, Potts. NAYS: None. Motion carried.

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886? Internet a 

Resolution 2019-16, for the purchase of a call management system, was discussed. Once a vendor has
been identi?ed the resolution will be presented.

GOOD OF THE ORDER:
Bob Potts reported that, at the National Convention for the VVA, members discussed opening
membership to veterans From Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans.

Mel Baher reported that the American Legion presented a resolution to Congress and the President and it
has been signed. The Legion Act states that any veteran who served from December 7, 1941 to present, is
eligible to join the American Legion.

EXECUTIVE SESSION:
None.

With no further business, a motion was made by Bob Potts and seconded by Chris Grau to adjourn the

meeting at 11:16 am.
AYES: Baher, Grau, Potts. NAYS: None. Motion carried.



   
 

    

 




1, Secretary

2e11, President?

 

CONTACT INFORMATION
Requests for Financial Assistance/
Filing claims with the Dept. of

Veterans? Affairs/Memorial Affairs: Charlene Amos, Service Of?cer Mgr. (216-698-3831)
Melinda Halliburton, Service Of?ce Mgr. (216-698-2639)
Finance Dept: Larry Amato, Financial Operations Mgr. (216-698-2391)
Social Work Dept: Terry Walker, Social Worker/Case Mgmt. (216-698-2379)
Executive Director: Jon Reiss (216-698-2611)
Commissioners: Mary Kitko, Secretary to the Board (216-698-2651)

?Veterans Helping Veterans Since 1886" Internet 0 

