THE METROHEALTH SYSTEM
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
LEGAL & GOVERNMENT RELATIONS COMMITTEE
March 14, 2018
Present: Committee Members: Thomas McDonald, Vanessa Whiting
Other Trustees:

Maureen Dee

Staff:

Elizabeth Allen, Laura McBride, Michael Phillips, Craig Richmond,
Dr. Brook Watts

The meeting was called to order at 12:40 p.m. by Ms. Whiting. The minutes are written in a format
conforming to the printed meeting agenda for the convenience of correlation, recognizing that some of
the items were discussed out of sequence.
I.

The minutes of the December 20, 2018, meeting were approved.

II.

Consent Items - None

III.

Discussion Items


Government Relations Update
There was no report provided.



Legal Department/Risk Update
Ms. McBride provided an update on the reorganization of the Legal Department into two
areas of responsibility. Sonja Rajki is the Deputy General Counsel on the Corporate side
while Laura McBride is the Deputy General Counsel for Litigation and Risk. The role of
Chief Risk Officer does not exist anymore since Marlene Franklin’s retirement, and
Laura McBride has accepted the position of handling Litigation and Risk Management.
Cheryl Greer remains the Coordinator for Claims and Risk Management, and Geoffrey
Petranek is the Clinical Risk Manager. Marlene Franklin will be returning to the Legal
Department on a part-time basis to assist with special projects and until it is determined
what unique responsibilities previously handled by Ms. Franklin are needed in a person
for a future position.



Risk Management Report
Ms. McBride’s report on Risk Management was reserved for Executive Session.

A motion was unanimously passed by roll call vote to hold an executive session to discuss
pending litigation and confidential legal matters.
Following the executive session, the meeting reopened.

 IV.

Action Items - None
There being no further business, the meeting adjourned at 2:05 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,

Michael Phillips
Senior Vice President and Chief Legal Officer

2

 