Minutes
CUYAHOGA COUNTY
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Friday, March 8, 2019, 8:30 AM – 11:00 AM
Cuyahoga County Administrative Headquarters
2079 East Ninth Street, Cleveland, OH 44115
4th Floor, 4-407 - Committee Room B
1. Call to Order – meeting of March 8, 2019
The meeting was called to order at 8:35 a.m.
2. Roll Call
Michael Abouserhal, Chairperson
Keith Libman
Yvette Ittu
Trevor McAleer (alternate for Councilman Dan Brady)
Angela Rich (alternate for Fiscal Officer Dennis Kennedy)
Armond Budish
Absent:
Gary Shamis
3. Public Comment - Related to Items on the Agenda
There was no public comment related to items on the agenda.
4. Approval of Minutes – December 19, 2018
There were no corrections to the minutes from the December 19, 2018 meeting.
Trevor McAleer motioned to approve, as written; Keith Libman seconded. The
minutes for the December 19, 2018 meeting were unanimously approved.
5. Executive Session (As Necessary)
Michael Abouserhal stated an executive session was necessary for the Auditor of
State’s (AOS) pre-audit conference, item 7(b) on the agenda.
6. Old Business:
a. Follow-up Items from 4th Quarter Meeting
Cory Swaisgood presented the follow-up items from the 2018 4th quarter
Michael Abouserhal noted that Keith Libman has been reappointed to the
Audit Committee for the period 1/1/2019 – 12/31/2022. County department
heads believe 21 out of 40 findings and management letter comments
from the 2017 external financial audit will not be repeated in the 2018
audit.
Per a prior request from Michael Abouserhal requested the approximate
dollar amount of expenditures to external providers from the County. Cory
Swaisgood said that multiple inquiries were made with the Fiscal Office
and he could only gather readily available data from HHS, which ranged

 Audit Committee Meeting
March 8, 2019
Page  2

from $100 to $150 million per year, of which the current audit in Invest in
Children covers $11 million. Keith Libman noted concern that the number
was not readily available. Cory Swaisgood will work with County
management to obtain a more accurate number of provider spending.
Cory Swaisgood stated that management of the Department of
Development is working on finalizing their policies and procedures for
issuing loans and Cory Swaisgood will distribute to committee members
once they are finalized, scheduled to receive the week of the March 18th.
b. Review of Audit Staff’s Continuing Professional Education Credits
Michael Abouserhal described the Committee’s internal charter
requirement to review internal audit staff’s continuing professional
education (CPE). Cory Swaisgood noted that yellow book auditing
standards require each auditor assigned to government audits to complete
80 hours of CPEs every 2 years, of which 24 hours must be related to
governmental auditing and accounting. Cory Swaisgood also stated this
requirement is also noted in the Department’s audit manual. For the
current cycle (2018-2019), all staff members are on track to complete 80
hours of CPE in compliance with auditing standards and the audit manual
by the end of 2019.
Michael Abouserhal inquired on payment of CPEs sources utilized. Cory
Swaisgood responded that some CPEs are obtained for free through
professional memberships. The remainder are obtained through other
professional organizations. Keith Libman and Yvette Ittu requested that
Cory identify training that would enhance the committee members’
knowledge of governmental audit committees and forward as necessary.
c. Discussion on Procurement Audit – IT Contracts
Michael Abouserhal introduced the topic of the internal audit report on IT
contracts. The Chief Innovation Officer, Catherine Tkachyk, presented a
summary on the corrective action taken to-date on the findings in the audit
report. She noted that some of the items, such as creating an IT inventory
policy, were completed prior to the report being issued. The Office of
Procurement and Diversity (OPD) are currently improving the various
forms utilized in the procurement process.
Catherine Tkachyk noted the missing routers had not been located and
the County decided not to pursue a recovery. Keith Libman inquired as to
whether the missing routers were a cybersecurity risk. Cory Swaisgood
noted the routers had no access to the County’s network during the audit.

 Audit Committee Meeting
March 8, 2019
Page  3

Michael Abouserhal inquired as to how the Department of Innovation
tracked prior audits and the status of addressing the audit findings.
Catherine Tkachyk briefly described her department’s process for tracking
audit recommendations and how they work to address the findings, mostly
on process improvement. Armond Budish noted that one of the main
purposes of the Department of Innovation was to ensure DIA is getting all
required information in a timely manner. Cory Swaisgood noted that this
has improved for some of the engagements.
d. Requested Opinion on Public Records
Brendan Doyle from the Prosecutor’s office presented the current status of
the State of Ohio Attorney General’s opinion on the applicability of public
record laws to DIA’s audit workpapers and draft reports. Per his inquiries
the final opinion is imminent.
Trevor McAleer and Cory Swaisgood have been working with the Director
of Regional Collaboration to determine if an amendment could potentially
be proposed to the ORC to make DIA records confidential until a final
report is issued. Per the County’s lobbyist an amendment is unlikely at this
time, but possibly after the next budget session. Yvette Ittu inquired as to
how other internal audit shops address this and Cory Swaisgood noted
that other entities, like DIA in the past, state the report will be distributed
when final. Releasing draft reports to the public was never a problem in
the past. Cory Swaisgood to reach out to Summit County for further
information and collaboration on the ORC amendment. Michael
Abouserhal requested that this continue to be an agenda item.
7. Other Business:
a. Election of Audit Committee Chairperson
Keith Libman commended Michael Abouserhal for his excellent service as
Chairperson over the past year. Keith Libman motioned to reappoint the
current chair. Trevor McAleer seconded. The motion to reappoint the
current chair was unanimously approved.
b. Pre-Audit Discussion with Auditor of State on 2018 Financial Audit
Michael Abouserhal discussed the purpose to go into executive session
for the Auditor of State’s (AOS) pre-audit conference. Executive Session
was adjourned without objection and Michael Abouserhal then reconvened
the meeting.
c. Confirm Independence of Audit Personnel
Michael Abouserhal noted the Committee is required on an annual basis

 Audit Committee Meeting
March 8, 2019
Page  4

to confirm the independence of audit personnel, per the County’s audit
charter and professional auditing standards. Cory Swaisgood presented
that staff of the department have signed independence forms. A few staff
members had been informally offered jobs that were not pursued. One
staff member is on the Slavic Village Development Corporation board, but
this position does not present an impairment of independence according
to the Inspector General.
Cory Swaisgood stated the only departmental staffing circumstance that
could potentially represent an independence issue relates to the staff
member assigned to assist with the bank reconciliation. However,
safeguards were and will be implemented to ensure independence is not
impaired. Michael Abouserhal inquired as to whether the department’s
independence procedures and documentation were included in the 2018
peer review. Cory Swaisgood confirmed that the peer reviewers included
review of independence disclosures in their scope. No instances noted.
d. Resident Member Independence Disclosure
Michael Abouserhal described the Audit Committee Charter requirement
for resident members of the Audit Committee to annually complete an
independence disclosure statement. Cory Swaisgood confirmed that all
four resident members of the Audit Committee submitted their annual
independence statements. The non-resident members (County
employees) must disclose independence issues to the County’s Office of
Inspector General separately.
e. Update on Internal Audit Positions
Michael Abouserhal requested an update on any open internal audit
positions or staffing changes. Cory Swaisgood presented on the current
vacant staff auditor position. Cory Swaisgood noted that 23 of the 37
applicants will be tested in March. Cory Swaisgood responded to Trevor
McAleer’s question that the eligibility list from the previous posting in 2017
could not be used to fill the position since the listing expired (1 year).
Cory Swaisgood described the request from the Audit Committee that Kim
Seeley, Sr. Staff Auditor, temporarily work with the Fiscal Office to assist
with their bank reconciliation process, an outstanding state audit finding
for multiple years. Cory Swaisgood recommended an increased pay rate
for Kim Seeley in this temporary expanded role, with an effective date of
March 4th. Kim Seeley will reassume his normal duties as Sr. Staff Auditor
upon project completion, estimated to be 3-6 months.

 Audit Committee Meeting
March 8, 2019
Page  5

Keith Libman motioned to approve the temporary salary increase; Trevor
McAleer seconded. The motion was unanimously approved.
f. Update of Internal Audit Policies
Michael Abouserhal noted that the Committee is required to review
existing policies and approve any changes made on an annual basis. Cory
Swaisgood noted that no recommended changes were made to existing
policies at this time.
g. Schedule Update to Council
Michael Abouserhal stated that the Audit Committee Charter requires the
Committee to provide an annual update to Council. Michael Abouserhal
and Cory Swaisgood discussed the format, content, and timing of what will
be presented from the Committee to County Council. The same format will
be followed as last year’s report, unless requested differently from
Council. The Audit Committee’s compliance to the charters as well as DIA
highlights must be included in the report.
Cory Swaisgood stated timeline for development of the report and
distribution to Council, He will have the report to the Audit Committee by
the end of March and submitted to County Council mid-April. Trevor
McAleer noted the Finance Committee might request Cory Swaisgood
formally present the report this year at a committee meeting.
h. Report of Performance Relative to Prior Year Audit Plan
Per the Internal Audit Charter, Cory Swaisgood presented performance
relative to the prior year audit plan (2018). The following was presented:
• All carryover engagements from 2017 into 2018 were released in 2018.
• Two out of five new audits from 2018 were released in 2018/2019. Two
were moved to 2019 and the remaining audit from Invest in Children is in
the reporting phase.
• Three out of five follow up reviews were released in 2018. One is in
progress and another moved into 2019 due to system implementation
date changes.
• Three out of four consulting engagements were completed in 2018. The
remaining project, ERP, is expected to be complete once all systems are
implemented, scheduled for the end of 2019. Trevor McAleer
questioned how the department would complete the ERP review since
the key personnel assigned to the project was transferred to another
project. Cory Swaisgood noted that the engagement’s scope would be
reduced to only review of significant items, like user role security, and
agreed with Michael Abouserhal’s recommendation that the new IT
position would be given an enhanced role in the engagement.

 Audit Committee Meeting
March 8, 2019
Page  6

i.

Approval of 2018 Risk Assessment Report
Michael Abouserhal discussed the requirement for the Committee to
approve the annual risk assessment and its importance in the creation of
the annual audit plan. Cory Swaisgood noted that there was a 96%
response rate for the risk assessment questionnaires sent out to the
various agencies, which is the highest response rate since beginning the
annual process in 2015.
Keith Libman motioned to approve the Risk Assessment Report. Trevor
McAleer seconded. The motion was unanimously approved.

j.

Approval of 2019 Audit Plan Report
Cory Swaisgood briefly presented the current audit plan. The only known
change to the tentative audit plan approved at the 4th quarter meeting is
the HR Benefit review engagement requested by the Audit Committee.
Trevor McAleer motioned to approve the Audit Plan Report; Keith Libman
seconded. The motion was approved unanimously.

k. Benefits Eligibility and Withholdings Review Report
Cory Swaisgood presented the history of prior engagements performed in
HR Benefits and the work completed in 2018. Cory Swaisgood noted that
all preliminary results from the engagement were provided to HR Benefits
by August 2018. Michael Abouserhal discussed his concern with the time
it took HR Benefits to review the results as well as clarity about the scope
and objectives of the engagement.
Holly Woods, Director of Benefits, described the engagement had been
limited to recalculating withholdings for a select group of employees where
errors were known to have occurred, ensuring unqualified employees
were not erroneously receiving a waive benefit allowance, that people
were defaulting correctly and that only eligible employees were receiving
pharmacy benefits through the County. Holly Woods described why the
department had been unable to timely address the preliminary results and
the status of where there review currently stands. Holly Woods stated all
the results will be reviewed by the end of March and any employees whom
were not corrected in 2018 will be addressed. Yvette Ittu requested a
comparison of the dollar impact between the 2018 and 2017 findings.
Michael Abouserhal requested the 2019 engagement include the same
objectives as the prior year but the scope should be enhanced to 100% of
employees, not just the groups requested by HR Benefits in the prior year.

 Audit Committee Meeting
March 8, 2019
Page  7

Michael Abouserhal requested the results be timelier reviewed and Holly
Woods agreed her team would address them in a timely fashion. Cory
Swaisgood hops to have all the data for the 2019 review by the end of
March and tested before the next Audit Committee meeting in June.
Trevor McAleer motioned to approve the 2018 report; Keith Libman
seconded. The motion was approved unanimously
l.

Bank Reconciliation Review
Michael Abouserhal introduced this engagement and provided a history of
how the unreconciled cash balance has been a recurring external audit
finding. Cory Swaisgood described how DIA evaluated the current bank
reconciliation process based on the request from the Fiscal Office and
approval form the Audit Committee at the 4th quarter meeting. DIA did
identify control enhancements and efficiencies to improve the process.
Cory Swaisgood noted the Audit Committee requested DIA to expand the
scope and timing of the review to assist the Fiscal Office in completing the
bank reconciliation, since key Fiscal Office staff are temporarily out on
leave and due to the recurring state audit finding. Kim Seeley has been
temporarily assigned beginning on March 4th due to his current
involvement in reviewing the bank reconciliation process. Cory Swaisgood
stated safeguards have been and will be put in place to maintain DIA’s
independence from management. Kim Seeley will still report through DIA
and will not record entries to the financial system. Kim Seeley’s
involvement in the bank reconciliation will be evaluated at the begging of
every future engagement to ensure independence is not impaired. Armond
Budish thanked the Audit Committee for assisting with this project.
Angela Rich, Asst. Fiscal Officer, thanked the Audit Committee and DIA
for their assistance. Angela Rich noted sufficient resources will be
available to work with Kim Seeley for the bank reconciliation from January
2018 thru the new ERP process. One full-time accountant, two managers
and another accounting will be assigned part-time. The Fiscal Office is
working on obtaining temporary workers from Robert Half for the project. A
contractor formally used to hire workers to assist with the bank
reconciliation did not work out.
Michael Abouserhal inquired as to whom would be responsible for the
bank reconciliation going forward. After discussion ensued it was
determined that Rich Petrunyak, Financial Reporting Manager, would be
responsible going forward.
Kim Seeley discussed work completed to date, including an inventory of

 Audit Committee Meeting
March 8, 2019
Page  8

the current status of monthly reconciliations and identifying ways to
streamline the process. Yvette Ittu requested the objectives of the
engagement be enhanced to include developing policies and procedures
for the new bank reconciliation methodology that will be implemented with
the ERP. The expected timeframe of this engagement is 3-6 months.
m. Children and Family Services Travel Reimbursement Audit Report
Michael Abouserhal requested additional time for the Committee members
to review this report prior to final approval. Pre-approval will be obtained
from Committee members through e-mail with final formal approval
occurring at the next scheduled meeting. Cory Swaisgood presented the
objectives of the audit related to duty related travel reimbursements. Cory
Swaisgood commended the department’s efforts to address the
recommendation and the minimal issues identified during the audit.
n. Sheriff’s Office General Operations Follow-up Report
Cory Swaisgood stated that auditing standards require DIA to perform a
follow up to all audits. Of the 139 recommendations made in the Sheriff’s
Office – General Operations report, 80% were addressed. Michael
Abouserhal inquired as to how the department tracked the other 20% of
the recommendations. Cory Swaisgood noted that another follow up will
not be performed and the remaining items were either low risk, or
operations had changed and the risk were no longer present. Michael
Abouserhal thanked the Sheriff’s department for their diligence in
addressing the recommendations and the Department of Innovation for
assisting with making the changes.
o. Update of Current Internal Audit Engagement – ERP
Cory Swaisgood gave a brief background of the engagement and noted
that he had previously provided preliminary findings to the Committee due
to the long implementation schedule. Cory Swaisgood described that after
DIA’s review of general ledger security the role-based security module had
been modified to make it easier to make changes and address
segregation of duty concerns in the system. DIA has made many
recommendations to the GL module, some not expected to be made until
after go-live. There will be a final report issued to the Committee following
implementation of the last module, expected the end of 2019.
Michael Abouserhal inquired as to whether DIA had been provided all
access needed to complete our review. Cory Swaisgood noted that
access to a workflow system (IPA) had not been granted after multiple
requests. Catherine Tkachyk will follow up on the request.

 Audit Committee Meeting
March 8, 2019
Page  9

p. Update of Current Internal Audit Engagement – Invest in Children Provider
Monitoring Audit
Cory Swaisgood presented the audit objectives which were to ensure that
monitoring controls are designed and operationally effective for the more
than $11 million distributed to providers on an annual basis. Cory
Swaisgood noted that these types of engagements will be a recurring
audit in future audit plans due to the large amount disbursed by the
County to providers and their inherent risk. The report is currently in draft
form and with management for the post audit in March. DIA did find one
recovery during the audit. The report should be to the Audit Committee by
the end of April.
q. Update of Current Internal Audit Engagement – Juvenile Court Audits
Cory Swaisgood presented the current status of these engagements.
Both are in the planning stage, with assigned staff conducting
walkthroughs and planning steps. During the entrance conference
additional assistance was requested from DIA. These additional requests
will be evaluated based on urgency and staff availability and the Audit
Plan will be amended, if necessary. Trevor McAleer and Michael
Abouserhal commended the department since both engagements were
requested by the Juvenile Court.
r. Update of Follow-up – Sheriff’s Office
Cory Swaisgood presented an update on the Sheriff’s Office follow-up
engagements. Two are currently in progress. The Commissary follow up
will re-commence once their new system is implemented, as some of the
items cannot be verified until the new system is in place. The Civil Division
follow up is in progress but has been delayed due to management out on
leave. Both are expected to be completed during 2019.
8. Public Comment – Unrelated to Agenda
There was no further public comment on items unrelated to the agenda.
9. Next Meeting – Friday, June 7, 2019 9:00 AM – 11:30 AM
10. Adjournment
Keith Libman motioned to adjourn; Trevor McAleer seconded. The motion to
adjourn was unanimously approved at 10:58 a.m.
_________(signature on file)_______
Michael Abouserhal, Chair
MA/ks

 