Cleveland/Cuyahoga Workforce Development Board – Area 3
Friday, August 16, 2019 Meeting Minutes – PENDING
Last Name

First
Name

Bruno
Carter
Ebersole
Jankowski
Karp
Marbury
Merriman
Moore

Gabe
Ted
David
Pam
Ethan
Shana
David
William

Brickner
Emery
Fluellen
Ford

Frank
Amy
Anthony
Ida

Anthony Adkisson
Harriet Applegate
Kelly Kehn

I.

Agency

Last Name

First
Name

WDB Members
Lincoln Electric
O’Malley
Dan
County Dept. of Development
Shank
Jason
Richard Barga (proxy) City ED
Shelnick
Kim
Aspire Greater Cleveland
Smith
LaToya
MAGNET
Thomas, Jr.
Felton
GCP
Thomas
Kim
County H&HS
Tubbs
Micki
ODJFS
Vesy
Deborah
OhioMeansJobs Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Staff
Kelley
Mary
Kilbane
Grace
Megenhardt
Dave
Nugent
Rosemary
Guests
Maher & Maher (consultant)
Rick Maher
Cleveland Bldg. & Const.
Gretchen Sullivan
Trades Council
Lincoln Electric
Natoya Walker Minor

Agency
North Shore AFL-CIO
Plumbers Local 55 (JATC)
University Hospitals
Fifth Third Bank
Cleveland Public Library
Christopher Amira Studio
FIT Technologies
Deaconess Foundation

Maher & Maher Senior Consultant
Maher & Maher (consultant)
City of Cleveland

Call to Order/Welcome & Introductions
Chair Tubbs called the meeting to order at 8:33 a.m. Micki welcomed Harriet Applegate, Executive
Secretary of the North Shore Federation of Labor, who is awaiting formal appointment from Mayor
Jackson. She announced Ethan Karp will serve as vice chair of the Executive Committee and chair of the
Strategic Functions Committee. In addition, Kim Thomas will serve as chair of the Youth Committee.
Micki introduced Rosemary Nugent, new OMJ CC executive assistant. As this is Grace’s last meeting,
Micki thanked Grace for her leadership and said OMJ CC and the WDB have grown stronger because of
her efforts. Micki explained the executive director is appointed by the mayor of Cleveland in consultation
with the county executive.
The purpose of today’s meeting is to finalize the 2019-23 Strategic Plan. Thank you to everyone for
your input. Anthony Adkisson and Gretchen Sullivan of Maher & Maher will lead the discussion.

II.

Approval of WDB Minutes

Motion to Approve May 17, 2019 Meeting Minutes
Moved by K. Thomas
Seconded F. Thomas
Motion Passed
III.

Business Session
A. Phase 2 Certification
Deputy Director/CFO Brickner reviewed the process for Phase 2 Certification which is mandated by
the Ohio Department of Labor. An internal team of Pam Jankowski, Jason Shank, and Mike Longo
was assembled to review benchmark metrics as adapted from the U. S. Department of
Labor by the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services. Phase 1 Certification was passed last year.
Our score is 71.5 which indicates a superior OhioMeansJobs center. A score of 63 is the minimum
acceptable score.

1

 The Cleveland/Cuyahoga County Workforce Development Board accepts the recommendation from
the certification review team that the Phase 2 certification requirements have been met for the
comprehensive center located at 1910 Carnegie Avenue; Cleveland, Ohio 44115.
Motion to Approve Phase 2 Certification
Moved by: D. Merriman
Seconded F. Thomas
Motion Passed
B. Work Experience for Adults and Transitional Jobs Policies:
Deputy Director/CFO Frank Brickner explained the Work Experience for Adult/Dislocated Workers
Policy can be used for pilot projects and for those with barriers to employment, including exoffenders. The policy allows participants be paid a stipend, as well as for hours worked, and is exempt
from unemployment compensation. He indicated we anticipate piloting a project modeled after the
State policy.
Frank Brickner explained the Transitional Jobs Policy provides work experience to those with barriers
to employment or chronic unemployment, and participants must be paid a wage for hours worked
only and cannot be paid a stipend. Included in this update is language stating that wages are exempt
from unemployment compensation. The maximum reimbursement per trainee is $7,500.00 if paid
with WIOA formula funds. There is no cap for non-WIOA formula funds.
Motion to Approve Work Experience for Adults and Transitional Jobs Policies
Moved by: J. Shank
Seconded D. Merriman
Motion Passed
C. Adult and Dislocated Worker Performance for Program Year 2018 July-December:
Executive Director Grace Kilbane reviewed the annual performance data and thanked ULA who runs
the programs. OMJ CC receives 14% of State funding, while responsible for 35-40% of job
placements throughout the state. D. Merriman asked about recognition of our performance from
OWA. Grace replied no.
D. Marketing & Outreach RFP Update:
Program Administrator Mary Kelley reported the RFP was sent out to bid in May and we received
six submissions. A team scored the submissions and two firms were clustered at the top. Both firms
were interviewed by the Management Team, references were contacted, and Strategic Resources &
Consulting led by Ken Dowell was selected. SR&C works in complement with Joe Mosbrook of
Acclaim Communications.
E. 2019-23 Strategic Plan:
Motion to Adopt the 2019-23 Strategic Plan
Moved by: E. Karp
Seconded G. Bruno
Motion Passed
F. Next Meeting is 8-10 a.m. Friday, November 15, 2019, 3rd Floor Board Room, 1910 Carnegie
Ave, Cleveland 44115
2019-20 CCWDB meetings 8-10 a.m. February 21 and May 15, 2020
2

 G. Closed business portion of CCWDB meeting and convened Strategic Planning 2019-23 retreat
with consultants from Maher & Maher.
Guest Speaker
Grace introduced today’s guest speaker, Rick Maher, Maher & Maher Senior Consultant & IMPAQ
Advisory Board Member
As a getting to know each other exercise, G. Sullivan asked Board members to mingle and respond to
the question, ‘why have you chosen to serve on the WDB and what is your passion?’ Afterwards, Board
members and staff shared their responses with the group.
G. Sullivan reviewed the action planning instructions for the five breakout groups. Each group developed
priorities and action plans for implementation of specific strategies. At the conclusion of the breakouts, a
representative of each group gave the report out. Maher & Maher will compile the results.
ADJOURNED
Recorded by Rosemary Nugent

3

 