Board Meeting
5-20-2019
Attending:
Jeff Hastings, Chairman
Inajo Davis Chappell, Member
David J. Wondolowski, Member
Anthony Perlatti, Director
Shantiel Soeder, Deputy Director
Brendan Doyle, Assistant Prosecutor, Cuyahoga County
Anthony Alto, Clerk to the Board
Linda Walker, Clerk to the Board

The Board Meeting began at 9:35 a.m.
Chairman Hastings noted that board members Chappell, and Wondolowski were present. The Board
voted unanimously to excuse the absence of Board Member Frost from today’s meeting.

Agenda Item 1: Approval of the April 16, 2019 board meeting minutes
The Board voted unanimously to approve the minutes from the April 16, 2019 board meeting.
Agenda Item 2: Acknowledgement of Secretary of State Directives and Advisory
The Board voted unanimously to acknowledge Secretary of State Directives 2019-05; 2019-06; 2019-07;
and Advisory 2019-04.
Agenda Item 3: Determination of the validity of provisional ballots and authorization to count
provisional ballots from the May 7, 2019 Primary Election
Registration Department Assistant Manager Tony Kaloger stated there were a total of 209 provisional
ballots cast including 30 in-house provisionals. Of those ballots, 178 were found to meet the requirements
for opening. Five (5) were found valid due to the APRI Exception. The APRI Exception allows any
Cuyahoga County voter who was cancelled as a result of a supplemental process to be activated as long as
they are not registered in another county.
The Board voted unanimously to authorize the counting of the valid provisional ballots from the May 7,
2019 Primary Election.

1

 Director Tony Perlatti stated that as the results stand today, there will be an automatic recount for Parma
Issue 10.
Agenda Item 4: Acknowledgement of candidate withdrawal
Chairman Hastings abstained from voting on acknowledging the withdrawal of candidate for Parma City
Council, Jason Streichert.
Board members Chappell and Wondolowski voted to acknowledge the withdrawal of candidate for Parma
City Council, Jason Streichert.
Agenda Item 5: Acknowledgement of resignations from and appointments to elected office
The Board voted unanimously to acknowledge the resignations from and appointments to elected office as
listed in the meeting materials.
Agenda Item 6: Approval of vouchers
The Board voted unanimously to approve the vouchers as listed in the meeting materials.
New Business:
Solon Polling Locations:
Director Perlatti stated that one of the items reviewed by staff after each election is the functionality of the
polling locations on Election Day. The post-election review of Solon’s four (4) polling locations used in
the November 2018 General Election produced two items that needed to be addressed. The Arthur Road
School could no longer be used on account of the school administration not allowing the Board to use the
entrance door that made the location ADA compliant. The voting room used at Grantwood Gold Course
was overcrowded. There were six (6) precincts housed at that location. As normal course of business,
staff in the Election Support Department set out to solve these challenges. Election Support identified the
Solon Community Center as a good polling location alternative to replace Arthur Road School, and this
location could also address the overcrowding at Grantwood Golf Course. Staff then held a meeting with
Solon Mayor Kraus, Councilman Pelunis, and other Solon City Officials on or about February 11th.
Several polling location changes were agreed upon and on March 5th, Dane Thomas in Election Support,
received an email from Mayor Kraus’ Office confirming the polling location changes. Board staff did not
receive any communication from any Solon official since implementing the changes.
Board Member Chappell asked why the Plain Dealer reporter did not contact the Board before finishing
the story.
Director Perlatti stated that there will be a meeting held with Mayor Kraus and City Council on this
matter.
The Board went into executive session at 9:54 am.
The Board entered back into public session at 10:43 am
Agenda Item 7: Approval of personnel agenda
The Board voted unanimously to approve the personnel agenda as listed in the meeting materials, and the
restructure recommended by staff.
2

 The Board voted unanimously to recess at 10:50 pm.

Certi?cation: I have reviewed the above minutes and certify that they are an accurate summary of the
actions taken by the Cuyahoga County Board of Elections at its meeting held on May 20, 2019.

Jeff Hastings, Chairman

 

Inajo Davis Chappell, Member

 

 

Robert S. Frost, Member

 

David J. Wondolowski, Member A 

Anthony Perlatti, Director 

