MINUTES
NORTHEAST OHIO REGIONAL SEWER DISTRICT
BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING
June 20, 2019

A Regular Meeting oftlie Board of Trustees of the Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District was
called to order at 12:35 pm. by Darnell Brown.

I. Roll Call

PRESENT: D. Brown
R. Sulik
J. Ciaccia
.1. Bacci
S. Dumas

ABSENT: R. Stefanik
T. DeGeeter

The Secretary informed the President that a quorum was in attendance.
11. Approval ofMinutes

MOTION Mayor Bacci moved and Mr. Ciaccia seconded to approve the Minutes ol?the June 6,
2019, Board Meeting. Without objection, the motion carried unanimously.

Public Session

There were no items.
IV. Chiel?Executive Of?cer?s Report

CEO Dreyl?uss-Wells began her report by highlighting the ribbon cutting that took place on
Sunday. June at the Kamm?s Corners Green Infrastructure Project. The project included the
construction of live bio-retention cells and slides where presented to the Board to show one ofthe
cells in the earlier days of its installation and growth. This project was implemented by the City of
Cleveland?s Of?ce of Capital Projects in partnership with the Kamm?s Corners Community
Development Corporation. The District provided a $250,000.00 Green Infrastructure grant to the
City in 2018. It is a large parking lot on West 165lh and Lorain Avenue and now a great location
to see bio-retention. This project will remove a million gallons ol?stormwater each year from the
combined sewer system.

The ribbon cutting for the Kamm?s Corners project was Followed by a groundbreaking at the
Centennial Peace Plaza at the Cleveland Cultural Gardens on June llIll for another project
implemented by the City?s Of?ce ofCapital Projects on behalfofthe Culture Gardens. The District

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

June 20, 20l9

Page 2 of 14

provided a $100,00.00 Green Infrastructure Grant and will remove about 100,000 gallons of
stormwater annually from the combined sewer system through pervious pavers and stone matrix.

On June several District employees attended the Greater Cleveland Partnership?s annual
meeting. The District was presented with an award from the Commission on Economic Inclusion,
which is the Commission?s "best in class" for workforce diversity. The criteria for this award
included the District?s total number of employees, the District?s diverse sourcing efforts, outreach
and recruitment efforts and internal promotions. CEO Dreyfuss-Wells congratulated the Human
Resources team and all the District managers that work on staffing, promotions, and employee
development.

On Friday, June the District partnered with the Cleveland Foundation and Morning Star
Baptist Church to hold a ribbon-cutting for the Buckeye Green Infrastructure Project, located at
the intersection of Buckeye Road and Woodhill Road. This is a large Green Infrastructure project
and one of nine Green Infrastructure projects under the Consent Decree. This is a great partnership
with Morning Star Baptist Church which occupies the old car dealership between Shaker
Boulevard and Buckeye Road. The unique part ofthis project is the public art components funded
by the St. Luke?s Foundation and the National Endowment for the Arts through LAND Studio. A
slide was presented depicting Stephen Manka, a sculptor who worked on the project, Damien Ware
and Dawn Arrington. Damien and Dawn wrote the poetry stamped into the components of this
project and are both residents of the Buckeye neighborhood.

Turning to employee updates, Jalal Abuhamdeh, Human Resources Manager of Employee
Branding and Talent Programs, completed the Lead Diversity program with the Diversity Center.
Joan Lorenzo, Plant Utility Maintenance Person (PUMP), completed the Hispanic Alliance's
Leadership Development Initiative. Both the Lead Diversity Program and the Hispanic Alliance?s
Leadership Development Initiative offer employees the opportunity to engage in diversity and
inclusion efforts and develop professional networks.

Moving on to the Who?s Who in Black Cleveland event of June Daryl Coats. Data
Governance Business Intelligence Manager; Angela Jones, Senior Government Affairs
Specialist; Darryl Key, Fleet Services Manager; and Jacqueline Muhammad, Government Affairs
Manager were all included in the Who?s Who in Black Cleveland. CEO Dreyfuss-Wells
recognized these District employees for their efforts.

CEO Dreyfuss-Wells concluded her report by introducing Constance l-Iaqq, Director of
Administration External Affairs to speak about the upcoming River Reborn event.

Ms. l-Iaqq pointed out that the Board members have been provided with parking passes and a
revised agenda and noted that Mayor Jackson will kick off the event. There will be three
commendations the District will be receiving, and the Board members will be asked to come up
and receive those commendations as well as take a picture. There will be a dedication of the Tow
Path near the end of the event. Ms. I-Iaqq encouraged the Board members to join the District in
celebrating the River Reborn.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

June 20, 2019

Page 3 of 14

V. Action Items
Authorization to Advertise

Resolution No. 152-19 Authorization to publish notice calling for
bids, in accordance with Ohio Revised Code
Chapter 6119, for the Combined Sewer
Over?ow (CSO) Bar Racks Maintenance
Services project with an anticipated
expenditure of $98.500.00.

Resolution No. 153-19 Authorization to publish notice calling for
bids, in accordance with Ohio Revised Code
Chapter 61 19, for Li? Equipment Preventative
Maintenance and Repairs at all District
facilities with an anticipated expenditure of

$70,000.00.
Resolution No. 154-19 Authorization to publish notice calling for
bids, in accordance with Ohio Revised Code
Withdrawn Chapter 6119, for the Abbey Road Basin

Improvements project with an anticipated
expenditure 

Resolution No. 155-19 Authorization to publish notice calling for
bids, in accordance with Ohio Revised Code
Chapter 61 19, for the Site Restoration Services

II project with an anticipated expenditure of
$495,000.00.

MOTION Mr. Ciaccia moved and Mayor Bacci seconded to adopt Resolution Nos. 152-19,
153-19 and 155-19. After the follow discussion, without objection, the motion carried
unanimously.

Resolution No. 154-19 was withdrawn.

Mr. Brown requested further explanation on Resolution No. 155-19 regarding the bids for site
restoration services and questioned what the District is doing to restore the various sites that have
been occupied by the District for long periods oftime.

Devona Marshall, Director of Engineering Construction, introduced Charles IIuse, Project
Engineer and Project Manager for this project to walk through the sites for which the District is
going to be performing on-site restoration to give an idea of what is planned for those sites, and to
discuss the coordination up to this point for community input on those sites. Mr. Huse noted that
this is an in?house design project by Trust for Public Land and DERU Landscape Architecture

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

June 20, 2019

Page 4 of 14

with an estimated construction cost of $495,000.00, and including a 10 percent Minority-Owned
Business Enterprise, Women-Owned Business Enterprise goal, and a 5 percent Small
Business Enterprise (SBE) goal. Mr. Huse stated that the goals of the projects are to landscape four
of the District?s post-construction sites - including three along the Dugway Storage Tunnel and
one along East 140??. This is the second phase of the restoration program which will also follow
the District?s guide to restoration. It is a Tier I restoration project where the District both owns
and maintains the sites.

The project will include landscaping nearly three acres of property with 80 trees, 450 shrubs, and
mulched beds. Based on a community input, the District will include walkway paths, gathering
areas and bicycle racks to create a better product in the end. These projects all follow the District's
Guide to Construction Site Restoration which was developed with the Cleveland Planning
Commission. The District worked with Councilman Conwell of Ward 9 and Councilman l-lairston
ofWard 10, St. Martin De Porres, St. Aloysius, Famicos and the Cleveland Planning Commission.
A community bus tour was organized, and input was received for these outdoor gathering areas
like boulder seating, park benches, and areas for residents to eat at with picnic tables. Based on
another community request, the District will try to increase the bird population and provide bird
habitats. The project will also include incorporating community colors in the planting of certain
plants that change their colors with the seasons.

Mr. Huse provided an overview ofthe three sites along the Dugway Storage Tunnel and the one
along East 140??. Mr. Iluse displayed three renderings that will begin this fall, one at Lakeview
Avenue and St. Clair Avenue, which includes a walking path and a gathering area. Community
residents asked the District to try to reduce the asphalt footprint. The District has incorporated
grassed-porous pavers so that members of the community have areas to play. There is also another
site at Primrose Avenue and Lakeview Avenue for members to gather and play. It Features a
stormwater management feature for the reduction of site runoff. Mr. Huse concluded by discussing
the East 123rd and Superior Avenue site, which features a gathering area, a large stormwater
management feature to help reduce site runoff, and park benches and picnic tables. Mr. Brown
stated he found the planned site restorations to be exceptional.

Resolution No. 156-19 Authorization to issue an RFP, in accordance
with Ohio Revised Code Chapter 6119, for
Internal Audit professional services to ful?ll
audit planning.

MOTION Mr. Sulik moved and Ms. Dumas seconded to adopt Resolution No. 156-19. Without
objection, the motion carried unanimously.

Authorization to Purchase

Resolution No. 157-19 Authorization to purchase replacement parts, as
needed, used in Moyno Pipe liners repair at all
Wastewater Treatment Plants from sole source
vendor Schultz Handling Equipment in a total

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

June 20, 2019
Page 5 of 14
amount not-to-exceed $150,000.00.
Resolution No. 158-19 Authorization to purchase laboratory chemicals and

supplies from sole source vendor IDEXX
Laboratories, lnc. in an amount 
$150,000.00.

MOTION Mr. Ciaccia moved and Mayor Bacci seconded to adopt Resolution Nos. 157-19 and
158-19. Without objection, the motion carried unanimously.

Authorization to Enter into Contract

Resolution No. 159-19 Authorization to enter into a three-year
contract with The Smith Oby Service Co. for
Maintenance and Repair Services at
all District facilities in an amount not-to-
cxceed $2,658,220.60.

Resolution No. 160-19 Authorization to enter into a design-build
contract with Nerone Sons. Inc. for the Dille
Road-?Barberton Creek Pump Stations
Upgrades project in an amount not-to?exceed
$337,198.00.

Resolution No. 161-19 Authorization to enter into a design-build
contract with Cold llarbor Building Company
for the Southerly Miscellaneous Disinfection
and Solids Handling Improvements project in
an amount not-to-excced $414,208.00.

MOTION Ms. Dumas moved and Mr. Ciaccia seconded to adopt Resolution Nos. 159-19
through 161-19. After the following discussion, without objection, the motion carried
unanimously.

Mr. Brown requested an explanation on Resolution No. 159-19 as to why there were so few bids
received and what was spent on the last Maintenance and Repair Services contract.
Frank Foley, Director ofOperation Maintenance, explained that when potential contractors were
polled for their reasons for not submitting bids, two of the companies stated they did not feel they
had enough manpower for thejob, two felt they could not be competitive in the work, one simply
overlooked the opportunity, and three did not return the calls. This current contract amount is a
little over $2.6 million. The old contract was around $1.1 million. The previous contract was for
two (2) years, but this one is for three (3) years. There are three (3) main reasons for the increase
in the dollar amount. The biggest reason is that the District is expending contract funds for repairs
at a quicker rate than anticipated and that makes up almost $700,000.00 of the increase: the contract
duration went from two (2) to three (3) years, which makes up about $555,000.00 ofth increase;

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

June 20, 20i9

Page 6 of [4

and additional preventative maintenance work included is around $320,000.00 or about 20 percent
ofthe difference.

Mr. Brown also requested further explanation on Resolution Nos. 160-19 and 161-19 regarding
the authorization for the funding being only for the design portion of the projects and con?rmed
that Board approval will be required for the construction costs, which are estimated to be $2 million
and $3 million respectively. Mr. Brown noted that pump stations are routine designs with basic
functions and elements. Devona Marshall, Director of Engineering Construction explained that
the reason the District choose the design/build delivery methodology was due to the limited
engineering or design that is necessary for these projects. Ms. Marshall explained that. with regard
to the pump station project, it is mainly replacing existing equipment. Ms. Marshall stated that the
same is true with the Southerly Miscellaneous Disinfection and Solids Handling Improvements
project ?-minimal engineering is needed but some ?eld veri?cation is needed which is more
effectively served by the contractor performing the work and allows for better coordination. These
are both progressive design/build projects which involve a two-step process. The initial portion is
approval of the funds to bring the contractors to a 60 percent design. At that point, Board approval
is required for the guaranteed maximum price (GMP). Ms. Marshall explained that before coming
to the Board with this request, a third-party will review the GMP to make sure the District is getting
a good price from the contractors since this not being publicly bid.

Mr. Ciaccia stated he was attempting to understand with both of these projects and Resolution 163-
19 wherein the District will negotiate guaranteed maximum price, how do the general allowances
come into play. He noted that on both contracts there are general allowances for unforeseen
conditions, and he questioned whether this allowance would also be used for errors or omissions
or owner-requested changes. He also questioned how a general allowance for unforeseen
conditions would come into play ifa price is guaranteed and the contractor is designing it. and
whether it is typical to consider unforeseen conditions in a contract like this.

Ms. Marshall stated that the general allowance is being treated like a design-bid-build, so the
general allowance (GA) would be used in the same way. If something changed, if unforeseen
conditions came up, the GA would be used to address those. Ms. Marshall stated that the GA is
part ofthe GMP so that is part ofthat total.

Mr. Ciaccia asked if the general allowance for unforeseen conditions precludes compensation for
errors and omissions. James Bunsey, Chief Operation Of?cer. responded that if an error is made,
that is an engineering mistake by the contractor and would not be paid for from the District. That
would be on the contractor?s or engineer's costs - that is not included in any kind of allowance. If
the omissions are something in the ?eld that would exceed the scope of service, that would a
District mistake and we would be responsible for those costs. If the contractor omits something
that is required to give us the agreed scope of services, those costs would be on the contractor and
not covered by the District. Mr. Ciaccia stated that he received clari?cation that the GA is notjust
for unforeseen conditions and had no further questions.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

June 20, 2019

Page 7 of 14

Authorization of Contract Modi?cation

Resolution No. 162-19 Authorization to modify Contract No.
18004557 with JCI Jones Chemicals, Inc. for
Sodium Hydroxide Solution at all Wastewater
Treatment Plants for a twelve-month time
extension with no change in the contract
amount.

MOTION Mayor Bacci moved and Ms. Dumas seconded to adopt Resolution No. 162-19.
Without objection, the motion carried unanimously.

Authorization to Amend

Resolution No. 163-19 Authorization to amend design-build Contract
No. 18004634 with Lake Erie Electric. Inc. for
the Easterly-?Westerly Low Voltage Equipment
Replacement project to incorporate a
Guaranteed Maximum Price of $9,633,272.12
for construction, thereby bringing the revised
total contract amount to $1 1,094,242.12.

MOTION Mr. Sulik moved and Mr. Ciaccia seconded to adopt Resolution No. 163-19. After
the following discussion, without objection, the motion carried unanimously.

Mr. Brown asked for the original engineer's estimate for Resolution No. 163-19. Ms. Marshall
explained that the engineer?s estimate was more of a capital planning number and going into the
project, the capital plan was at $10.4 million. The District is asking for the total price to be just
over $1 1 million so there is an increase of almost $600,000.00 to $700,000.00 and looking back at
the comparison, the difference is in the engineering professional services fee, not the construction.
After the District examined the project further, it was discovered that there is more ?eld
veri?cation that was required during the design phase. Regarding the overall (3MP, a third party
reviewed the to make sure that the bid made sense and the District was getting the best value.

Authorization to Adopt Budget

Resolution No. 164-19 Authorization to adopt the District?s 2020
Operating and Capital Budgets for the year
ending December 31, 2020, as presented.

MOTION Ms. Dumas moved and Mayor Bacci seconded to adopt Resolution No. 164-19.
Without objection. the motion carried unanimously.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

June 20, 2019

Page 8 of 14

Sewer Use Code Matters

Resolution No. 165-19

Adopting the ?ndings of the Hearing Officer
with regard to sewer charges on the account of
Ms. Shu Hua Chen, Sewer District Hearing
No. 19-013, that the customer?s request be
denied.

MOTION Mr. Ciaccia moved and Ms. Dumas seconded to adopt Resolution No. 165-19.
Without objection, the motion carried unanimously.

Authorization to Bond Issuance

Resolution No. 166-19

Providing for the authorization, issuance and
sale of not to exceed $270,000,000 Northeast
Ohio Regional Sewer District Wastewater
Improvement Refunding Revenue Bonds.
Series 2019, for the purpose of refunding
some or all of certain obligations previously
issued for the purpose of acquiring,
constructing and improving water resource
projects, all as authorized by the Trust
Agreement; authorizing the execution of a
Ninth Supplemental Trust Agreement to
extend the pledge of Net Revenues and
Special Funds to secure such Series 2019
Bonds. to provide covenants appropriate to
the protection and disposition of such Net
Revenues and Special Funds, and to secure
the payment of the principal of and interest on
the Series 2019 Bonds at their respective
maturities on a parity with the Series 2005
Bonds, the Series 2007 Bonds, the Series
2010 Bonds, the Series 2014 Bonds, the
Series 2016 Bonds, the Series 2017 Bonds
and Additional Bonds that may be issued in
the future; authorizing the execution of an
Escrow Agreement for the purpose of
effecting the refunding of the Refunded
Bonds; authorizing the preparation and
distribution ofa preliminary and ?nal Official
Statement; authorizing the execution of a
Bond Purchase Agreement, a Certificate of
Award, and a Continuing Disclosure
Agreement; and authorizing such other

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

June 20, 2019

Page 9 of 14

actions as are necessary and appropriate to
accomplish the transactions hereby
authorized.

MOTION Ms. Dumas moved and Mayor Bacci seconded to adopt Resolution No. 166-19. After
the following discussion, without objection, the motion carried unanimously.

Mr. Brown requested further explanation on Resolution No. 166-19. He asked for details of the
transaction since under the District?s requirements, there is a minimum ofabout four percent that
is expected to be gained as a result ofthis issuance.

Ken Duplay, Chief Financial Officer, explained that the District?s debt policy authorizes executing,
or at least exploring, refunding transactions at the four percent net present value savings level. The
Finance Department has been working with our ?nancial advisor, Baker Tilly, to look at the
callable portions ofthe 2010 bond issue. Potential savings are in the seven to eight percent range
on the outstanding $250 million par on that issue that is callable. The related debt service potential
savings is in the $18?$20 million range. This is similar to the 2017 refunding that was done both
in terms of dollar size and percentage savings.

Ms. Dumas asked if this authority is brought against the entire portfolio including new issuances
or are you sunsetting a piece. Mr. Duplay explained that the only refundable bonds outstanding
are these maturities of the 2010 bonds. The outstanding 2013 and 2014 bonds are no longer
advance refundable because those are tax?exempt bonds. The 2010 bonds were Build America
Bonds which were taxable with a federal rebate. Ms. Dumas asked if this gives the authority to
continue to monitor the portfolio and then refund any that fit the criteria of the four percent that
would allow for savings. Mr. Duplay noted that the Board would be notified if another transaction
was to be done.

Authorization to Reiect and Rebid

Resolution No. 167-19 Authorization to reject bids and re-bid the
West 3rd Quigley/Westerly Miscellaneous
CSO Control project, with an anticipated
expenditure of$ 1 2,600,000.00.

MOTION Mayor Bacci moved and Ms. Dumas seconded to adopt Resolution No. 167-19. After
the following discussion, without objection, the motion carried unanimously.

Mr. Brown requested further explanation on Resolution No. 167-19.

Ms. Marshall noted that the District received one bid for this contract which came in greater than
10 percent over the engineer?s estimate and therefore, under Ohio law, the District cannot award
this project. Based on that, as well as some comments received from the contracting community
during the bidding phase, the risks and complexities of this project were re-examined, and the
engineer?s estimate is being increased from $10.9 million to $12.6 million. The Board was

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

June 20, 2019

Page 10 of 14

presented with slides to show some ofthe risks and constraints. Ms. Marshall explained that it is
a tight site working in a residential area, so there is additional maintenance of traf?c that must be
implemented for site access. There are also some challenging subsurface conditions with the
ground water in this area. There will also be extensive utility coordination that will have to take
place. The project is limiting the means and methods in some cases because it is in a residential
and business area. Specifically, prohibiting technology that uses vibration methods as it relates to
the shaft construction. There are several schedule constraints and required coordination with other
construction going on in the area.

Mr. Brown stated that since the constraints are things that would have been known and should
have been discussed in any pre-construction, pie-proposal meeting so there was an understanding
of the speci?c requirements of the project and adjustments could have been made to submittals,
his concern was that none of these are tremendous or speci?cally unique that would result in the
District only receiving one bid. Ms. Marshall noted that knowing the concerns and that the
contractors believe they cannot do the work for $10.9 million or 10 percent above that, the District
was surprised to even receive the one bid. Ms. Marshall stated that a big portion ofthe increase is
due to a speci?c allowance (SA). There is a lot ofcoordination at one ofthe sites. USEPA is in the
process of capping around Clark Field due to the contaminated soil. Right now, under the base
contract, the District is planning on leaving the soil on site and the USEPA would use that as part
of the capping process. The District does not know if the timing is going to work out so the SA
was increased to $400,000.00just in case the District would have to remove all that soil.

Authorization to Retain Legal Counsel

Resolution No. 168-19 Authorization to retain Squire Patton Boggs.
LLP and Forbes. Fields Associates Co., LPA
to serve as Bond Counsel and Co-Bond
Counsel respectively for the Series 2019
Wastewater Improvement Revenue Refunding
Bonds in a total amount not-to?exceed
$150,000.00.

MOTION Mr. Ciaccia moved and Mayor Bacci seconded to adopt Resolution No. 168?19.
Without objection. the motion carried unanimously.

Property Related Transaction

Resolution No. 169-19 Authorizing the District to enter into a Right of
Entry Agreement with Kurt Houston dba
Kurt?s Getaway Bar and Grill on PPN 541-16-
005, located at 8908 Gar?eld Boulevard in the
City 01' Gar?eld Heights, owned by the
District, to provide over?ow parking for the
Peoples? Choice Bike Show on August 24,
2019 with total consideration of$1.00.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

June 20, 2019

Page 11 of14

ResolutionNo.170-19 Authorizing the District to acquire one
permanent subterranean easement on a portion
of PPNs 003-21-006, 003-22-001, and 003-22-
002, located at 1605 W. 25th Street in the City
of Cleveland, owned by The Cuyahoga
Metropolitan Housing Authority, necessary for
the construction of the Westerly Storage
Tunnel project with total consideration of
$26,100.00.

MOTION Ms. Dumas moved and Mayor Bacci seconded to adopt Resolution Nos. 169-19 and
170-19. Without objection, the motion carried unanimously.

V1. Information Items

1. Chief Legal Of?cer General Counsel Claims Report to Northeast Ohio Regional
Sewer District Board of Trustees

Mr. Brown stated that any questions relating to the Claims Report should be addressed with Eric
Luckage, Chief Legal Of?cer.

2. Program Management Status Report and Update May 2019

Ms. Marshall presented the capital improvement update for the month of May 2019. She stated
that for the end of May, cash flow was at 74 percent ofplanned, which is up from last month at 71
percent. The goal of delivering 85 percent is still behind due to some invoices and payouts that
continue to come in a little late and if those were done on time, the cash flow would be over 90
percent of planned. For the month of May, $18 million was paid out in actual dollars.

Moving on to design level Key Performance Indicators the District completed the design
of the Site Restorations Services Phase II Project, which was highlighted earlier, within 60 days
of plan, meeting the For construction level KPls. substantial completion was achieved on the
Union/Buckeye Appendix 3 Green Infrastructure Project, a $4.9 million construction contract.
This is the project that CEO Dreyfuss-Wells highlighted in her executive updatethe schedule and the maintenance on this project being extended to do reseeding this
past spring.

The construction ofthe GJM Building Interior Renovations Project was completed in May, which
was $1 million design/build projectthe contract not being closed
within 95 percent ofthe original contract amount. The was met as it relates to the Business
Opportunity Programs (BOP) goals. No goal was set on this project due to majority of the cost
being materials or in this case furniture, but the projected actual BOP participation is over 36
percent. The total work orders on this project were 5.6 percent which were all under the category

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

June 20, 2019

Page 12 of 14

of owner-requested changes for additional of?ce spaces that were requested after the contract was
already de?ned and the construction had already started.

Next, Ms. Marshall stated that, also in the month of May, the District closed the construction
contract on the Westerly Fire Safety Code Upgrades Project, a $2.9 million construction
contract. This was closed out within 95 percent, meeting the KPIs were also met on the BOP.
The goals were set at 10 percent and the projected actual being over 44.5 percent. The total work
orders on this project came in extremely low, at 0.58 percent. The Board was presented with a
graph to Show that most of the work orders fell under the category of emergency work. There was
a broken waterline on the Westerly site that was repaired as an emergency repair under the GA on
this project.

Ms. Marshall continued with her report by presenting the Board with a picture of the Southerly
plant which is in Cuyahoga Heights and covers about 273 acres. Southerly is the largest of the
District?s treatment plants and services 45 communities including communities within the
Counties of Cuyahoga and Summit, as well as some of Lorain County. There are six large tributary
interceptors that feed the plant by bringing ?ow from those 45 communities and in a typical day
the flow is about 100 MGD. The current primary capacity of Southerly is 735 MGD and the current
secondary capacity is 400 MGD. There are currently eight active construction projects at the plant
totaling $90 million. The ?rst is the First Stage Aeration Tank Improvements Project which is
wrapping up and this project involves the rehab of aging infrastructure within that process both
from the tank itself as well as the associated equipment. Next is the District-Wide UPS
Replacement Project which is part of the larger automation program management upgrades and
under this project, the backup batteries that supply the PLCs are being replaced to ensure
reliabilitv.

Next is the District-Wide Energy Conservation Improvements Project and two of the buildings
being addressed by this project are located at the Southerly plant. Under this project, the District
is updating lighting, heating and cooling to make those buildings more energy ef?cient. The next
project is the Building Ileat Boiler System Upgrades Project and under this project, two older but
very large inef?cient steam boilers are being replaced with eight more ef?cient but smaller hot
water boilers. Then there is the Electrical Infrastructure Improvements Project and under this
project, the aging infrastructure as it relates to the power supply equipment feeding the 
plant is being replaced and upgraded. Finally, the Renewable Energy Facility Improvements
Project, a $1 million construction project with a focus on making some improvements to the air
scrubber system that will allow for better removal of the mercury from the air coming off the
incinerators and improvements as it relates to the heat recovery system. The bene?ts from all these
projects fall under four main categories, the ?rst being increased energy ef?ciency and
sustainability, the category of improved operational reliability, the category of increased treatment
capacity and ef?ciency, and ?nally capital and operation cost savings including those associated
with the pending consent decree modi?cation request.

Moving on, Ms. Marshall discussed the Second Stage Lift Station Improvements Project, a $10.5
million construction project which is the ?rst major rehab ofthe lift station since it went online in
1977. This project includes replacing the outdated pump motors and electrical equipment as well

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

June 20, 2019

Page 13 of 14

as making some major building restorations. She noted that as a result of this project, the
sustainable capacity coming out ofthe pump station will be increased from 450 MOD to 480 MGD
and improvements will be made to help with the removal of phosphorus within the wet stream.
This project is almost completed, all the exterior building improvements are done, and staff is in
the process ofpump startup and testing and some IIVAC and electrical work to be completed by
October of this year remains. Ms. Marshall concluded her report by discussing the Second Stage
Settling Improvements Project, a $38.4 million contract. This is also a full rehaul ofthe units and
the original equipment that was installed back in the 19805 most notably is the replacement of the
sludge and skimmings collection equipment. This equipment is very old and breaks down a lot.
impacting the ability to treat to the current 400 MGD capacity and the future 480 MOD capacity.
As part of this project, the District will also do some structural rehab of the tanks as well as the
buildings associated with this process. This project is about six months in. Two tanks are being
taken down at a time so as to limit the impact on the overall capacity during construction? there
are ten tanks in total. The District has also started some of the structural repairs of the buildings
and overall substantial completion on this job is scheduled for May of 2022.

V11. Open Session

Mr. Brown noted that it is time again to elect of?cers for the 2019/2020 period and appointed a
committee to be led by Mr. Sulik and to include Ms. Dumas and Mayor Bacci.

Public Session (any subject matter)
There were no items.
1X. Executive Session

MOTION - Mayor Bacci moved pursuant to Ohio Revised Code Section to enter
into Executive Session to consult with District?s legal counsel concerning disputes involving the
District that are subject to pending and imminent court action. Roll call vote: all yes. entered into
executive session at 1:31 pm.

Following executive session. the Board returned to regular session at 1:53 pm.
X. Approval ofltems from Executive Session

Resolution No. 151-19 Authorization to publish notice calling for
bids. in accordance with Ohio Revised Code
Chapter 6119, for the Jennings and Old
Dcnison Combined Sewer Cleaning 2019
Project with an anticipated expenditure of
$860,000.00

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

June 20, 2019

Page 14 of 14

MOTION Mr. Ciaccia moved and Mayor Bacci seconded to adopt Resolution No. 151?19.
Without objection, the motion carried unanimously.

XI. Adjournment

MOTION Mr. Brown stated business having been concluded, he would entertain a motion to
adjourn. Mayor Bacci moved and Ms. Dumas seconded the motion to adjourn at 1:54 pm. Without
objection, the motion carried unanimously.



Timothy J. De?etel'f??cfr?ary

Board of Trustees
Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District

 

 

Darnell Brown, President
Board of Trustees
Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District

