5-5

NOACA BOARD
MEMBERSHIP
BY POPULATION

 

 

Governance Committee
August 23, 2019

 

 

 

 

 

ACTION REQUESTED
No action is requested at this time.
This item is for information and discussion only.

PREVIOUS ACTION

This issue was discussed at the May Governance Committee
meeting.
5-5

 BACKGROUND

• At the May meeting, the Governance Committee discussed
an inconsistency in the NOACA Code of Regulations.
• The Code of Regulations states that the region’s citizens
should be represented on the Board in a manner
approximating equal representation by population.
• The Code also provides a list of members by position or title
that is inconsistent with the equal representation requirement,
which results in a shortage of two seats to Cleveland based
on population.
• The committee voted to direct the NOACA Board to address
the allocation of board seats based on population.
5-5

 BACKGROUND

• The Board previously approved an amendment to the Code of
Regulations, but not all counties ratified it.
• Initial time, all but Medina and Geauga
• Second time, all but Geauga

• The Governance Committee has previously expressed
reluctance to make further attempts to amend the Code
without some certainty that ratification would be forthcoming.

5-5

 BACKGROUND

At this point, the Governance Committee could:
• Reintroduce the amendment to the Code correcting the math error
made with respect to the City of Cleveland’s representation and
awarding two additional board seats to the City, resulting in a board of
46 voting members.
• Reintroduce the amendment to address the issue of representation by
population, providing for automatic adjustments based on the
decennial census, as well as codifying the three member minimum for
each county.
• These amendments could be combined or proposed separately,
perhaps based on likelihood of ratification, which would be required
absent separate changes to Article IX of the Code.
5-5

 FINANCIAL IMPACTS

There is no financial impact.

 

 

 

5-5

 

 

NEXT STEPS
Based on the Committee’s input, staff will follow up as
needed, including preparation of suggested amendments to
be reviewed by the Committee and presented to the Board.

5-5

 NOACA will STRENGTHEN regional
cohesion, PRESERVE existing
infrastructure, and BUILD a
sustainable multimodal transportation
system to SUPPORT economic
development and ENHANCE quality
of life in Northeast Ohio.

 