AGENDA
CUYAHOGA COUNTY HUMAN RESOURCES, APPOINTMENTS & EQUITY
COMMITTEE MEETING
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 3, 2019
CUYAHOGA COUNTY ADMINISTRATIVE HEADQUARTERS
C. ELLEN CONNALLY COUNCIL CHAMBERS – 4TH FLOOR
10:00 AM
1. CALL TO ORDER
2. ROLL CALL
3. PUBLIC COMMENT
4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES FROM THE NOVEMBER 4, 2019 MEETING
5. MATTERS REFERRED TO COMMITTEE
a)

b)

R2019-0264: A Resolution confirming the County Executive’s
reappointment of various Mayors to serve on the Cuyahoga County
Planning Commission representing various Regions for the term
1/1/2020 - 12/31/2022, and declaring the necessity that this Resolution
become immediately effective:
i.

The Honorable Anthony J. DiCicco representing
the Hillcrest Region.

ii.

The Honorable Pamela E. Bobst representing the
West Shore Region.

R2019-0265: A Resolution confirming the County Executive’s
reappointment of various individuals to serve on the Cuyahoga County
Public Library Board of Trustees for various terms, and declaring the
necessity that this Resolution become immediately effective:

Page 1 of 3

 i.

Edward H. Blakemore for the term 1/1/2020 12/31/2026.

ii.

Patricia A. Shlonsky for the term 2/1/2020 1/31/2027.

c)

R2019-0266: A Resolution confirming the County Executive’s
appointment of Teri A. Agosta to serve on the Gateway Economic
Development Corporation of Greater Cleveland Board of Trustees for
an unexpired term ending 5/31/2022, and declaring the necessity that
this Resolution become immediately effective.

d)

R2019-0279: A Resolution authorizing and ratifying the structure for
payment of compensation to 33 County employees whose base salaries
exceed the maximum for the applicable salary ranges for their
respective positions, and declaring the necessity that this Resolution
become immediately effective.

e)

R2019-0280: A Resolution making an award on RQ45619 to
MedMutual Life Insurance Company in the amount not-to-exceed
$5,400,368.00 for group life, voluntary life and accidental death
insurance for County employees for the period 1/1/2020 - 12/31/2022;
authorizing the County Executive to execute the contract and all other
documents consistent with said award and this Resolution; and
declaring the necessity that this Resolution become immediately
effective.

f)

R2019-0281: A Resolution making an award on RQ45619 to The
Guardian Life Insurance Company of America in the amount not-toexceed $9,848,526.00 for dental insurance for County employees and
their eligible dependents for the period 1/1/2020 - 12/31/2022;
authorizing the County Executive to execute the contract and all other
documents consistent with said award and this Resolution; and
declaring the necessity that this Resolution become immediately
effective.

g)

R2019-0282: A Resolution making an award on RQ45619 to Vision
Service Plan in the amount not-to-exceed $1,823,399.00 for vision
insurance for County employees and their eligible dependents for the
period 1/1/2020 - 12/31/2022; authorizing the County Executive to
execute the contract and all other documents consistent with said
award and this Resolution; and declaring the necessity that this
Resolution become immediately effective.

6. MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS
Page 2 of 3

 7. ADJOURNMENT

*Complimentary parking for the public is available in the attached garage at 900
Prospect. A skywalk extends from the garage to provide additional entry to the Council
Chambers from the 5th floor parking level of the garage. Please see the Clerk to obtain a
complimentary parking pass.
**Council Chambers is equipped with a hearing assistance system. If needed, please see
the Clerk to obtain a receiver.

Page 3 of 3

 MINUTES
CUYAHOGA COUNTY HUMAN RESOURCES, APPOINTMENTS & EQUITY
COMMITTEE MEETING
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2019
CUYAHOGA COUNTY ADMINISTRATIVE HEADQUARTERS
C. ELLEN CONNALLY COUNCIL CHAMBERS – 4TH FLOOR
10:00 AM
1. CALL TO ORDER
Chairwoman Brown called the meeting to order at 10:03 a.m.
2. ROLL CALL
Ms. Brown asked Assistant Deputy Clerk Johnson to call the roll. Committee
members Brown, Jones, Miller and Conwell were in attendance and a quorum was
determined. Committee member Gallagher was absent from the meeting.
3. PUBLIC COMMENT
There were no public comments given.
4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES FROM THE OCTOBER 1, 2019 MEETING
A motion was made by Ms. Brown, seconded by Mr. Miller and approved by
unanimous vote to approve the minutes from the October 1, 2019 meeting.
5. MATTERS REFERRED TO COMMITTEE
a)

R2019-0225: A Resolution confirming the County Executive’s
appointment of Megan L. Van Voorhis to serve on the Alcohol, Drug
Addiction and Mental Health Services Board of Cuyahoga County for an
unexpired term ending 6/30/2020, and declaring the necessity that this
Resolution become immediately effective.

Page 1 of 3

 Ms. Jeane Holley, Deputy Director of Regional Collaboration addressed the
Committee regarding Resolution No. R2019-0225. Discussion ensued.
Committee members asked questions of Ms. Holley pertaining to the item, which
she answered accordingly.
Ms. Megan L. Van Voorhis addressed the Committee regarding her nomination to
serve on the Alcohol, Drug Addiction and Mental Health Services Board of
Cuyahoga County. Discussion ensued.
Committee members asked questions of Ms. Van Voorhis pertaining to her
experience, expertise and qualifications, which she answered accordingly.
On a motion by Ms. Brown with a second by Ms. Conwell, Resolution No. R20190225 was considered and approved by unanimous vote to be referred to the full
Council agenda with a recommendation for passage under second reading
suspension of the rules.
b)

R2019-0234: A Resolution adopting various changes to the Cuyahoga
County Non-bargaining Classification Plan, and declaring the necessity
that this Resolution become immediately effective.

Mr. Albert Bouchahine, Manager of Classification and Compensation for the
Personnel Review Commission; addressed the Committee regarding Resolution
No. R2019-0234. Discussion ensued.
Committee members asked questions of Mr. Bouchahine pertaining to the item,
which he answered accordingly.
On a motion by Ms. Brown with a second by Mr. Miller, Resolution No. R20190234 was considered and approved by unanimous vote to be referred to the full
Council agenda for second reading.
c)

R2019-0237: A Resolution confirming the County Executive’s
reappointment of various individuals to serve on the Cuyahoga County
Archives Advisory Commission for the term 12/1/2019 - 11/30/2023,
and declaring the necessity that this Resolution become immediately
effective:
i.
ii.

Deborah A. Abbott
Kieth A. Peppers

Ms. Holley addressed the Committee regarding Resolution No. R2019-0237.
Discussion ensued.
Page 2 of 3

 Committee members asked questions of Ms. Holley pertaining to the item, which
she answered accordingly.
Ms. Deborah A. Abbott and Mr. Kieth A. Peppers addressed the Committee
regarding their nomination to serve on the Cuyahoga County Archives Advisory
Commission. Discussion ensued.
Committee members asked questions of Ms. Abbott and Mr. Peppers pertaining to
their experience, expertise and qualifications, which they answered accordingly.
On a motion by Mr. Miller with a second by Ms. Brown, Resolution No. R20190237 was considered and approved by unanimous vote to be referred to the full
Council for second reading.
d)

R2019-0243: A Resolution making an award on RQ45502 to The James
B. Oswald Company in the amount not-to-exceed $834,650.00 for
professional employee benefits consultant services for the period
10/15/2019 - 4/15/2023; authorizing the County Executive to execute
the contract and all other documents consistent with said award and
this Resolution; and declaring the necessity that this Resolution become
immediately effective.

Ms. Holly Woods, Director of Human Resources Benefits & Compensation,
addressed the Committee regarding Resolution No. R2019-0243. Discussion
ensued.
Committee members asked questions of Ms. Woods pertaining to the item, which
she answered accordingly.
On a motion by Ms. Brown with a second by Ms. Conwell, Resolution No. R20190243 was considered and approved by unanimous vote to be referred to the full
Council agenda with a recommendation for passage under second reading
suspension of the rules.
6. MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS
There was no miscellaneous business.
7. ADJOURNMENT
With no further business to discuss, Chairwoman Brown adjourned the meeting at
11:07 a.m.

Page 3 of 3

 County Council of Cuyahoga County, Ohio
Resolution No. R2019-0264
Sponsored by: County Executive
Budish

A Resolution confirming the County
Executive’s reappointment of various
Mayors to serve on the Cuyahoga County
Planning Commission representing various
Regions for the term 1/1/2020 - 12/31/2022,
and declaring the necessity that this
Resolution become immediately effective.

WHEREAS, Ohio Revised Code Section 713.22 provides for the organization and
maintenance of a county planning commission; and,
WHEREAS, the Cuyahoga County Planning Commission membership consists of
three county representatives and representatives of eight separate planning regions.
The regional representatives are mayors of one of the communities in each planning
region who are appointed by the County Executive, except for the City of Cleveland
representative, who is appointed by the Mayor of Cleveland; and,
WHEREAS, members of the Cuyahoga County Planning Commission shall serve
a three-year term; and,
WHEREAS, the Cuyahoga County Charter Section 6.04, entitled Special Boards
and Commissions, states that “[w]hen general law or any agreement with another
public agency or court order provides for appointment of members of a special board
or commission or other agency by the board of county commissioners, such
appointment shall be made by the County Executive, subject to confirmation by the
Council,”; and,
WHEREAS, the County Executive has nominated various Mayors for
reappointment to serve on the Cuyahoga County Planning Commission representing
various Regions for the term 1/1/2020 - 12/31/2022 as follows:
a) The Honorable Anthony J. DiCicco representing the Hillcrest Region; and
b) The Honorable Pamela E. Bobst representing the West Shore Region; and,
WHEREAS, this Council by a vote of at least eight (8) members determines that
it is necessary that this Resolution become immediately effective in order that Charter
requirements can be complied with and critical services provides by Cuyahoga
County can continue and to provide for the usual, daily operation of a County Board.

1

 NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COUNTY COUNCIL OF
CUYAHOGA COUNTY, OHIO:
SECTION 1. That the Cuyahoga County Council hereby confirms the County
Executive’s reappointment of various Mayors to serve on the Cuyahoga County
Planning Commission representing various Regions for the term 1/1/2020 12/31/2022 as follows:
a) The Honorable Anthony J. DiCicco representing the Hilcrest Region; and
b) The Honorable Pamela E. Bobst representing the West Shore Region.
SECTION 2. It is necessary that this Resolution become immediately effective
for the usual daily operation of the County; the preservation of public peace, health,
or safety in the County; and any additional reasons set forth in the preamble.
Provided that this Resolution receives the affirmative vote of at least eight members
of Council, this Resolution shall become immediately effective.
SECTION 3. It is found and determined that all formal actions of this Council
concerning and relating to the adoption of this Resolution were adopted in an open
meeting of the Council, and that all deliberations of this Council and of any of its
committees that resulted in such formal action were in meetings open to the public, in
compliance with all legal requirements, including Section 121.22 of the Ohio Revised
Code.

On a motion by __________, seconded by _________, the foregoing Resolution was
duly adopted.
Yeas:
Nays:

_________________________
County Council President

__________
Date

_________________________
Clerk of Council

__________
Date

First Reading/Referred to Committee: November 26, 2019
Committee(s) Assigned: Human Resources, Appointments & Equity
Journal ______________
_______________, 20__

2

 Cuyahoga County

 

. Together We Thrive
. Armond Budish

Cuyahoga County Executive

November 15, 2019

Dan Brady, President
Cuyahoga County Council
2079 E. Ninth Street, 8th Floor
Cleveland, OH 44115

Re: Cuvahoga Caring: Planning Commission (CPCI

Dear President Brady,

Pursuant to Ohio Revised Code Section 713.22, I am pleased to nominate the following
individuals for re-appointment to the Cuyahoga County Planning Commission:

0 Mayor Anthony DiCicco (Hillcrest Region), 3-year term, 01/01/2020 -
12/31/2022

0 Mayor Pamela Bobst (West Shore Region), 3-year term, 01 01 2020 
12/31/2022

There are no specific requirements of Executive nominees. Regional members must be a
Mayor representing community within the designated area.

There are no other candidates on file for these positions.

There are no known con?icts of interest for which an advisory opinion has been requested.
This board is uncompensated.

Thank you for your consideration of this appointment. Should you or any of your

colleagues have any questions, please feel free to contact Michele Pomerantz in my office at
216-443-7125.
Sincerely,

$33 at

Armond Budish
Cuyahoga County Executive

 

2079 East Ninth Stfeet Cleveland, Ohio 44115 216-443-7178 

Anthon J. DiCicco

    

 

Career Summary

Mayor/Safety Director
City of May?eld Heights
6154 May?eld Road
May?eld Hts., Ohio 44124
2013 to present

.11th Mayor to serve the City of May?eld Heights

-Managing over 140 full time employees in addition to the Department of Police, Fire, Building,
Of?ce of Aging and Human Services, Recreation Department, Service Department, Finance,
Human Resources, and Engineering Department

IManaged an operating budget exceeding 22 million dollars yearly, ensuring ?scal responsibility

City Accomplishments

-E1ected to City Council 2008

IElected Council President 2012

-Current Chairman Planning Commission
Served on Board of Zoning Appeals, Parks and Recreation Commission and Commission on
Aging

DiCicco Sons Funeral Home

IManaging Director, DiCicco and Sons Funeral Home - May?eld Hts. Ohio
-Licensed Funeral Director

IResponsibilities include managing 12 full time employees, industry compliance
-Licensed Insurance Agent

 

Education

Gilmour Academy Class of 1979
Musician?s Institute, Hollywood CA. 1982
Riverside City College, Riverside CA 1985

 

Professional Af?liations

Ohio Funeral Director?s Association

Cuyahoga County Funeral Director?s Association
Cuyahoga County Mayor?s City Manager?s Association
Schnurman House Board of Directors

PAMELA E, BOBST
MAYOR
CITY OF ROCKY RIVER, OHIO

 

Contact Information:

    

Elected Experience:
Mayor, City of Rocky River, June 2006 to present
Board Member, Cuyahoga County Planning Commission, 2017 to present
Board Member, Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency, 2008 to present
Member, Policy Committee and Planning Committee, NOACA, 2016 to present
Chair, Legislative Affairs Committee, 2017 to present
Cuyahoga County Mayors and City Managers Association
Chair, Westshore Council of Governments, 2016
President, Safe Air for the Environment, 2020
Vice President, Safe Air for the Environment, 2008
Rocky River City Council Coancil?at-Large, six terms
Council President, 2002 to 2006
President Pro Tem, 1998 to 2002
Councilmember, 1996 to 2006
Member, Finance Committee
Member, Government and Judicial Contracts Committee
Past Chairman, Environmental Committee
Past Chairman, Buildings and Equipment Committee

Past Chairman, Ad Hoc Communications Committee
Past Chairman, Parks and Recreation Committee
Rocky River Parks and Recreation Commission, 1998 to 2005

Education:

Kent State University, Community Health Education, 1985
Northeastern Illinois University, Health Care Access/Public Health, BA, 1983
University of Minnesota, Dental Hygiene, G.D.H., 1979

Civic Activities and Memberships:
Community West oundation/F airview Lutheran Foundation
Board of Directors, 2006 to present
Advancement Committee Member, 2006 to present
airview Hospital Community Advisory Board
Board Member, 2006 to present
Rocky River Chamber of Commerce
Member, 1998 to present
Second Vice-President 2002 to 2005
Board of Directors, 1999 to 2005
Chairman, Governmental Affairs Committee, 1999 to 2005
Chairman, Communications Committee, 2002 to 2005
Rocky River Republican Club
Board Member, 2002 to present
Republican Party of Cuyahoga County
Executive Committee Member, 2005 to present
Finance Committee Member, 2005 to present
Rocky River Women ?5 Club
Past President and Member, 1988 to present
Beach Cli? Garden Club
Member, 2000 to present
Rocky River Historical Society
Member, 2001 to present
North Coast Health Ministry
Board of Trustees, 2000 to 2012

Awards:

Bill Pinter Award 201 7, presented by Rotary International, Lakewood/Rocky River
Foundation

Woman of Accomplishment 2007, presented by Cleveland Clinic Hospitals

Exemplar Award 2008, presented by Community Challenge/Recovery Resources

County Council of Cuyahoga County, Ohio
Resolution No. R2019-0265
Sponsored by: County Executive
Budish

A Resolution confirming the County
Executive’s reappointment of various
individuals to serve on the Cuyahoga County
Public Library Board of Trustees for various
terms, and declaring the necessity that this
Resolution become immediately effective.

WHEREAS, the Cuyahoga County Public Library Board of Trustees was created
pursuant to the provisions of Ohio Revised Code Section 3375.22; and,
WHEREAS, the Cuyahoga County Public Library Board of Trustees is a separate
political subdivision authorized by the State of Ohio to establish policies, and develop
an annual budget while Board members represent the citizen’s interest, promoting the
highest level of library service appropriate to the community, in accordance with state
law; and,
WHEREAS, the Cuyahoga County Charter Section 6.04, entitled Special Boards
and Commissions, states that “[w]hen general law or any agreement with another
public agency or court order provides for appointment of members of a special board
or commission or other agency by the board of county commissioners, such
appointment shall be made by the County Executive, subject to confirmation by the
Council,”; and,
WHEREAS, members of the Cuyahoga County Public Library Board of Trustees
shall be appointed to serve a seven-year term; and,
WHEREAS, the County Executive has nominated the following individuals for
reappointment to serve on the Cuyahoga County Public Library Board of Trustees for
various terms:
a) Edward H. Blakemore for the term 1/1/2020 - 12/31/2026; and
b) Patricia A. Shlonsky for the term 2/1/2020 - 1/31/2027; and,
WHEREAS, this Council by a vote of at least eight (8) members determines that
it is necessary that this Resolution become immediately effective in order that Charter
requirements can be complied with and critical services provides by Cuyahoga
County can continue and to provide for the usual, daily operation of a County Board.

1

 NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COUNTY COUNCIL OF
CUYAHOGA COUNTY, OHIO:
SECTION 1. That the Cuyahoga County Council hereby confirms the County
Executive’s reappointment of various individuals to serve on the Cuyahoga County
Public Library Board of Trustees for various terms as follows:
a) Edward H. Blakemore for the term 1/1/2020 - 12/31/2026; and
b) Patricia A. Sholonsky for the term 2/1/2020 - 1/31/2027.
SECTION 2. It is necessary that this Resolution become immediately effective
for the usual daily operation of the County; the preservation of public peace, health,
or safety in the County; and any additional reasons set forth in the preamble.
Provided that this Resolution receives the affirmative vote of at least eight members
of Council, this Resolution shall become immediately effective.
SECTION 3. It is found and determined that all formal actions of this Council
concerning and relating to the adoption of this Resolution were adopted in an open
meeting of the Council, and that all deliberations of this Council and of any of its
committees that resulted in such formal action were in meetings open to the public, in
compliance with all legal requirements, including Section 121.22 of the Ohio Revised
Code.

On a motion by __________, seconded by _________, the foregoing Resolution was
duly adopted.
Yeas:
Nays:

_________________________
County Council President

__________
Date

_________________________
Clerk of Council

__________
Date

First Reading/Referred to Committee: November 26, 2019
Committee(s) Assigned: Human Resources, Appointments & Equity
Journal ______________
_______________, 20__

2

  





is

Cuyahoga County

Together We Thrive
Armond Budish

Cuyahoga County Executive

 

a

I


a
a

November 15, 2019

Dan Brady, President

Cuyahoga County Council

Cuyahoga County Administration Building
2079 E.9th, 8th Floor

Cleveland, OH 44115

Re: Cuyahooa Countv Public Library Board ofTrustees
Dear President Brady,

Pursuant to Section 3375.22 of the Ohio Revised Code, I submit the following nominees for
reappointment to the Cuyahoga County Public Library Board of Trustees:

0 Edward H. Blakemore, 7-year term, 01/01/2020 - 12/31/2026
0 Patricia?A. Shlonsky, 7-year term, 02/01/2020 - 01/31/2027

The System serves 47 communities. Its mission is to be at the center of community life by
creating an environment where reading, lifelong learning and civic engagement thrive.
Functionally, the Board governs the Library?s overall operations.

The Board is comprised of seven members. Four members are appointed by the County
Executive, and three members are appointed by the judges of the Court of Common Pleas.
Ohio Revised Code requires that Board members be qualified electors of the library district.

I have attached a copy of the nominee?s resume for your review.

There are no known con?icts of interest for which an advisory opinion has been requested.
This board is uncompensated. There are four other candidates on file that applied for this
position.

Thank you for your consideration of this appointment. Should you or any of your
colleagues have any questions, please feel free to contact Michele Pomerantz in my office at
216-443-7125.

Sincerely,

amen.

Armond Budish
Cuyahoga County Executive

 

 

2079 East Ninth Street 1 Cleveland, 216-443-7178 

EDWARD H. BLAKEMORE

 

 

 

Accomplished, experienced, and collaborative legal and business Executive with 19 years of experience
managing and efficiently delivering legal services in both corporate and law firm environments. Results-
oriented business leader with a strong focus on the cost?effective and timely delivery of legal services
and overall client Satisfaction.

- Commercial Litigation and Disputes - Legal Spend Management

- Product Liability General Liability - Internal and External Training

- Internal Investigations - Management of Teams

. Environmental, Health &'Safety - Contract Negotiation

- Outside Counsel Selection - Employment Law?

Management
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

ROCKWELL AUTOMATION, Cleveland, OH 2016-Present
Chief Litigation Counsel
Chief Investigative Counsel for the Ombudsman 2017-2019

Manage the Litigation function of the Law Department including all legal services associated with formal
lawsuits and claims as well as providing proactive strategic counseling to several business units.

- Obtained dismissals or cost-effective business resolutions on numerous lawsuits and disputes.

- Created multiple internal training programs that were deployed and continue to be used to reduce risk
and promote best practices including: effective business communications, records retention
strategies, and pre-Iitigation and litigation lessons learned.

Deploy external training to Rockwell Automation distributors and business partners.

Assumed responsibility for global records management and retention in 2019.

Investigated 47 employee complaints in 2 years as the Ombudsman?s Chief Investigative Counsel.
Led a cross-functional team that created a new comprehensive policy for insider risk investigations.
Implemented a strategy for the selection and retention of diverse outside legal counsel.

Provide regular counseling to business stakeholders to limit risk and achieve desired outcomes.
Manage a team of paralegals and a records retention manager.

Recognized as Law Department ?Value Champion? in 2018.

EATON CORPORATION, Cleveland, OH 2008-2015
Counsel (2013?2015)
Senior Attorney (2008-2013)

Managed and delivered legal services including: contract review and commercial, employment, and

general liability litigation. .

- Responsible for tracking the key litigation metrics reported to senior management including: total
cases dismissed without payment, number and total value of cases defended without retaining
outside counsel, cases resolved for <$25,000, and total cases resolved versus incoming lawsuits
annually.

- Managed the workflow for a team of 4 litigation paralegals including: the assignment of lawsuits,
subpoenas, and special projects, quarterly team meetings, and career development. .

- Managed and obtained favorable results for Eaton by working with outside defense counsel on
several high exposure lawsuits and potential claims including:

- Defense verdict in a wrongful termination jury trial in Los Angeles, CA where the plaintiff?s last
settlement demand was $2 million in a jurisdiction notorious for large plaintiff?s verdicts.

- Defense verdict, after a jury trial, where an active employee alleged racial discrimination and
hostile work environment claims and her last settlement demand was $800,000.

- Summary judgment, affirmed on appeal, in areverse discrimination employment lawsuit where
the plaintiff?s last settlement demand was $1 million.

- Summary judgment, affirmed on appeal, in a  aWsuit alleging wrongful termination of a distributor
in California where the plaintiff?s last settlement demand was $2.5 million.

Amicably resolved a 10-year property remediation dispute for <33% of total settlement reserve.

- Served as primary law department contact for corporate HR and provided guidance on potential
terminations, reductions in force, EEOC claims, and employee relations matters.

- Supported corporate supply chain function by negotiating contracts with its primary suppliers.

- Partnered with Environmental, Health Safety legal team on the collaborative management
of litigation risk after serious workplace accidents and the defense and resolution of environmental
regulatory and property remediation matters.

- Partnered with the corporate EHS team on the creation of a comprehensive ?playbook" for all
employee fatalities/severe injuries to ensure all applicable corporate functions worked in concert to
mitigate overall risk, conduct a confidential internal investigation, interact with governmental entities
and investigators, and provide support to the impacted employee and his/her family.

- Served as co-editor of Law Notes quarterly newSletter which provided practical guidance to senior
leadership on emerging legal issues and changes in the law.

- Co-chaired Law Department?s Inclusion and Diversity Committee.

- Promoted to Counsel in 2013.

MANNION GRAY, Cleveland, OH 2006-2008

Of Counsel

Practice areas: commercial litigation, transportation litigation and appellate litigation.

Developed a client base of medical malpractice insurers, excess insurers,.transportation insurance
providers, and small to medium-sized businesses. First chairjury and bench trial experience included.

SUTTER, MANNION Cleveland, OH 2003?2006
Litigation Associate

Practice areas: professional malpractice, product liability, general liability and toxic tort litigation.
Participated as 1St and 2?d chair litigator in jury trials involving birth trauma injuries, breach of patient
informed consent, post-operative medical care liability, and injuries due to vehicle product defects.

BUCKLEY KING, Cleveland, OH 2003
Litigation Associate

Practice areas: commercial litigation and general liability defense litigation.

Counseled business owners and insurance companies on business disputes and negotiated settlements
of personal injury lawsuits.

FREUND, FREEZE ARNOLD, Dayton, OH 1998-2003
Litigation Associate (2000-2003)

Law Clerk (1998?1999) 

Practice areas: public sector, professional malpractice, and commercial litigation.

Participated as 1St and 2nd chair litigator in trials involving police misconduct, improper maintenance of
roadways, catastrophic personal injuries due to product defects, professional negligence, and breach of
contract.

EDUCATION

The University of Dayton School of Law, Dayton, OH, J.D.
Morehouse College, Atlanta, GA B.A. Sociology, Phi Beta Kappa, magna cum laude

COMMUNITY SERVICE, PUBLIC SPEAKING, AND AWARDS

Cuyahoga County Public Library, Member, Board of Trustees, (2010-present), President, (2016?
2018), Liaison, Foundation Board (2016-Present)

Applewood Centers, Inc., Member, Board of Trustees, (2012-Present), Co-Chair, Development
Committee (2014-Present)

Norman S. Minor Bar Association, Trailblazer Award Recipient, 2019
ALFA International, Member, Client Advisory Board, (2018?Present).
?What Clients Want? webinar CLE presentation (February 2019)
0 ?Financial Challenges Facing ln-House Counsel? live CLE presentation (September 2019)
Cleveland Marshall College of Law, Member, Visiting Committee, 2009-2016 1
Case Western Reserve University Summer Legal Academy, Board of Trustees, 2006-2016

National Business Institute, 2007-present Association of Corporate Counsel, 2013-present
Presented CLE programs on several subjects including the following topics: Mediation: Staying in
Control to Achieve Business Driven Outcomes; Hot Topics in Employment Law; Dirty Litigation
Tactics: How to Deal with ?Rambo" Litigators; Advanced Personal Injury Strategies: Mastering Your
Practice; Automobile Cases from Start to Finish; Civil Court Procedure and Strategy Boot Camp; The
Effective Negotiation of Settlement Agreements; Ethical Considerations in Personal Injury Cases.

Cleveland Metropolitan Bar Association, Member, Board of Trustees, (2009-2011), Chair, Certified
Grievance Committee (2010-2011)

City Club of Cleveland, Board of Trustees Member, 2007-2008
Norman 8. Minor Bar Association Annual Trailblazer Luncheon, Keynote Speaker, 2013

Patricia A. Shlonsky, Partner

Partner?ln-Charge, Cleveland Chair, Employee Benefits, Tax and Trusts Estates

 

 


0 Employee Bene?ts

- ERISA Litigation

- Executive
Compensation

0 Cybersecurity Privacy

Education

Miami University
(B.A., 1981)

The Ohio State University

Moritz College of Law
(J.D., with honors, 1984)

. RANKED IN

.1 Chambers}
9. USA I

2019 w"

Pall-lulu A shlansky

Width 

A
Best lint-1113?
gar of lliei 
3


Employ-L- Brnd'm law??u l-Imd

Overview

Patty serves as Partner-ln-Charge of Ulmer Berne's Cleveland office. In addition to
guiding the office?s development, client service, business, and operations efforts, Patty
chairs the firm?s Employee Benefits and Tax Practice Groups. With more than 30 years
of experience, Patty's practice focuses on assisting clients in the establishment
qualification, and maintenance of all types of employee benefit plans. She advises
clients regarding employee benefit compliance issues, benefits issues which arise in
mergers and acquisitions, privacy and data security issues under HIPAA, health benefits,
executive compensation, and represents clients involved in governmental and private
dispute resolution. Patty also has comprehensive experience handling all types of ERISA
litigation. She has achieved the highest ranking, AV Preeminent?, from Martindale-
Hubbell?, is ranked as one of Ohio?s leading Employee Benefits and Executive
Compensation lawyers by Chambers USA: America ?3 Leading Lawyers for Business,
and is named to The Best Lawyers in America? in Employee Benefits Law. Patty is an
avid reader and editor of a book review biog 

Expe?ence

. Represents clients in connection with establishment, qualification and
consultation regarding all types of employee benefit plans, including 401 
employee stock ownership plans, defined benefit plans, and nonqualified
deferred compensation.

. Represents clients in connection with all types of employee benefit compliance
issues and governmental and private dispute resolution.

. Represents clients in connection with litigation brought by governmental entities
and employers and fiduciaries in connection with all types of ERISA litigation,
including routine claims for benefits, breach of fiduciary duty claims, wrongful
termination of employment for purposes of denying employee benefits (510
claims), COBRA disputes and defending employers against multiemployer
benefit plan claims.

0 Represents clients in connection with establishment, consultation, and
termination of executive compensation.

. Represents clients in connection with legal issues affecting medical and other
welfare benefits.

. Assists clients in understanding their obligations and avoiding costly penalties
through guidance and interpretation of the Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act.

0 Counsels clients regarding benefits issues in mergers and acquisitions.
. Counsels fiduciaries in connection with ERISA obligations.

- Represents clients in connection with HIPAA privacy and data security
compliance.

. Provides counsel to clients with regard to distribution planning in connection with
individual retirement accounts and qualified plan assets.

 

jimer

ATTORNEYS

Page 1

Ulmer.com

Patricia A. Shlonsky, Partner

Partner?ln-Charge, Cleveland Chair, Employee Benefits, Tax and Trusts Estates

 

Experience (Cont)

. Experience in handling government audits.

. Represents businesses of all sizes, fiduciaries, insurers and financial providers in connection with all types of
ERISA issues on a regular basis.

- Extensive experience regarding virtually all aspects of employeebenefits and ERISA, including counseling
clients with respect to the design and establishment, maintenance, modification, merger, spin?off and termination
of all types of employee pension and welfare benefit plans, including profit-sharing, 401(k) and pension plans,
employee stock ownership plans (ESOPs), 403(b) annuities, cafeteria plans, self-insured medical plans and
medical reimbursement programs, disability plans and voluntary employee beneficiary associations 
drafting of governing and support documents and administrative forms; preparation of appropriate filings with
governmental agencies, including the Internal Revenue Service, US. Department of Labor and Pension Benefit
Guaranty Corporation, relating to such matters as plan qualification, tax-exempt status, plan mergers and plan
termination; advising with respect to operational and administrative issues relating to such matters as
nondiscrimination testing, anti-cutback issues, plan distributions, participant loans, investment direction, qualified
domestic relations orders, prohibited transactions, fiduciary responsibility, and COBRA and HIPAA compliance;
analysis of controlled group and affiliated service group status; and representing clients in audit controversies
with the Internal Revenue Service and U. S. Department of Labor.

- Assist clients in obtaining Employee Plan Compliance Resolution System (EPCRS) Compliance Statements and
in seeking private letter rulings, advisory opinions, and prohibited transaction exemptions with respect to
proposed transactions.

0 Past client representations include: assisting Fortune 500 company with HIPAA compliance; assisting publicly
traded entity with all retirement plan issues, including employer stock held in 401(k) plan; assisting insurers and
self?insured employees in connection with health and welfare disability claims, defending service providers in
breach of fiduciary duty claims, defending insurers and self-insured employers in welfare benefit claims,
defending administrators in COBRA disputes and defending employers in ERISA 510 claims.

Presentations
Plan Design Compliance

0 Cleveland Fiduciary Summit (August 2019)

Fiduciary Rule and the Futures and Derivatives Industry," Midland IRA and Ulmer DOL Fiduciary Rule
Seminar (August 2017)

0 "Rules of Engagement: Exploring the DOL Fiduciary Rule Its Effect on Providers of Investment Advice,?
Annual Ulmer Financial Services 8: Securities Litigation Client CLE Seminar (November 2016)

0 "Wellness Programs, HIPAA, and the EEOC: What To Do With All The Regulation,? Ohio Chamber of
Commerce CLE Seminar (October 2016)

Reporting Struggles, Lessons Learned, and Emerging Trends," Seminar and Panel Discussion
(June 2016)

0 ?What?s Up With Compliance?,? Health Action Council, Webinar (February 2016)
. ?Current Impact of the Affordable Care Act," Tax Club of Cleveland (September 2015)

?The Department of Labor as an Investment Management Regulator and Current Areas of Focus During
Examinations," Co-Presenter, Chicago Compliance Group (September 2014)

_l_llmer I

ATTO Ft NEYS Ulmer.com

 

Patricia A. Shlonsky, Partner

Partner?In?Charge, Cleveland Chair, Employee Benefits, Tax and Trusts Estates

 

Presentations (Cont)
Plan Design Compliance (Cont)
. ?Employers' Obligations under the Affordable Care Act," Ohio State Bar Association webinar (July 2014)

0 "Affordable Care Act (Obama Care),? 50th Annual Midwest Labor and Employment Law Seminar
(October 2013)

. ?Affordable Care Act Technical Updates,? Webinar (September 2013)

0 ?Employee Benefit Issues ACI's 2nd National Advanced Compliance and Benchmarking Forum
(May 2013)

0 ?Patient Prosecution and Affordable Care Act of 2010: Implications for 2013 and Beyond Require Planning and
Preparation Now,? Ulmer Berne LLP Employment Law Update Seminar (May 2013)

. "Putting Health Reform into Action: Next Steps for Employers,? Health Care Reform Update
(January 2013),

. ?The New Retirement Plan Fee Disclosure Rules: What's Next for Plan Sponsors?? The Cleveland Chapter of
WEB (September 2012)

. ?The Mandate Decision You,? Britton Gallagher Benefits (July 2012)

. ?Health Benefit Considerations for Labor and Employment Lawyers,? 48th Annual Midwest Labor and
Employment Law Seminar (October 2011)

. ?Tax Issues in Settlement and Separation Agreements," 47th Annual Midwest Labor and Employment Law
Seminar (October 2010)

- ?Contingent Workers and Employee Benefits Should We Worry?" American Conference Institute
(May 2010)

- ?Employment Contracts: Drafting Critical Provisions, Including Executive Compensation, Non'compete and
Proprietary Information Provisions,? 45th Annual Midwest Labor and Employment Law Seminar
(October 2008)

- ?Fee Disclosure and PPA Update," 2008 Annual Plan Sponsor Seminar (October 2008)

- ?Defined Contribution Plan Changes Fiduciary Liability Issues,? Pension Protection Act of 2006 Seminar
(December 2006)

. ?Defined Contribution Plan Changes - ERISA and the Pension Protection Act,? Teleconference sponsored by the
Global Knowledge Congress (November 2006)

. Accountant?s Training Session (November 2006)
. ?Benefits Issues,? Rockwell Automation (August 2006)
- Notice Issues," Ulmer Berne Employment Labor Law Seminar (May 2006)

Considerations for Financial Service Providers,? Hot Topics: Financial Services Update 2006
(May 2006)

. ?Employee Benefits and ERISA and Retirement Plan Administration: EGTRR Benefit Changes - Part 
Cleveland Tax Institute, Cleveland Bar Association (October 2001)

_Ulmer

AT Ulmer'cc?m

 

Patricia A. Shlonsky, Partner

Partner-In-Charge, Cleveland Chair, Employee Benefits, Tax and Trusts Estates

 

Presentations (Cont)
Plan Design Compliance (Cont)

- Benefits Council of Cleveland," presentation with IRS Specialists from Chicago regarding Employee
Plans Compliance Resolution System (June 2001)

. "Understanding HIPAA as It Applies to Health Care Provider's Use of Health Information," Aultman Health
System Medical Staff (September 2000)

?Legal Considerations in Maintaining the Privacy of Medical Records,? The Benefits Forum, Manufacturers
Alliance (June 2000)

0 ?Employee Benefits Considerations in Mergers and Acquisitions," Cleveland Tax Institute, Cleveland Bar
Association (November 1999)

. ?Administering Employee Benefits to Ensure Compliance With a Litany of Complex and Conflicting Federal
Laws," Personnel Law Update 1998, Council on Education and Management (June 1998)

0 ?Cutting Edge Issues in Employee Benefits," Cleveland Tax Institute, Cleveland Bar Association
(October 1997)

ERISA Litigation
. Litigation Update," 46th Annual Midwest Labor and Employment Law Seminar (October 2009)

. ?Winning ERISA Litigation," PriceWaterhouseCoopers General Counsel Forum (August 2008)

- Update for Financial Services Providers," Hot Topics: Financial Services Update 2007
(November 2007)

. "What's New in Employee Benefits,? Midwest Labor Employment Law Seminar, Ohio State Bar Association
Labor and Employment Law Section (October 2003)

. ?Employee Benefits "Promises to Keep,? Midwest Labor Employment Law Seminar, Ohio State Bar
Association Labor and Employment Law Section (November 2002)

0 ?Benefits Issues in Downsizing the Executive," Midwest Labor Employment Law Seminar, Ohio State Bar
Association Labor and Employment Law Section (October 2001)

. "Preemption Under Midwest Labor Employment Law Conference, Ohio State Bar Association Labor
and Employment Law Section (October 1999)

- Developments Affecting the Employment Relationship," Midwest Labor Employment Law Conference,
Ohio State Bar Association Labor and Employment Law Section (October 1997)

Executive Compensation
. ?What?s New with Deferred Compensation,? Cohen Company Continuing Education Program (July 2015)

. ?Executive Compensation and Employee Benefits Issues in Financially Troubled Times,? 52nd Annual Cleveland
Tax Institute (November 2009)

. ?Executive Compensation and the New 409A Regulations,? Tax Seminar (May 2007)
. Accountant's Training Session (November 2006)
. Ohio Society of CPAs (December 2005)

__L_llmer

ATTORN EYS U'mer'c?m'

 

Patricia A. Shlonsky, Partner

Partner-In-Charge, Cleveland Chair, Employee Benefits, Tax and Trusts Estates

 

Presentations (Cont)
Individual Retirement Accounts
. ?Nonqualified Plans: Their Place in Retirement Planning,? Ohio Society of CPAs (January 2000)

?The New Retirement Plan Fee Disclosure Rules: What?s Next for Plan Sponsors?? The Cleveland Chapter of
WEB (September 2012)

. ?Distribution Planning For Retirement Benefits The 2001 Proposed Regulations,? Luncheon Meeting,
Cleveland Bar Association Trust and Estates Group (May 2001)

0 ?Individual Retirement Accounts,? Cleveland Tax Institute, Cleveland Bar Association (November 1998)

- ?Individual Retirement Accounts and Other Retirement Developments,? 26th Charitable Tax Seminar, Jewish
Community Federation of Cleveland (June 1998)

- ?Distribution Planning and Charitable Giving for Retirement Benefits," Hot Topics in Estate Planning, The
Cleveland Foundation (August 1997)

General

. ?Perspectives from Local Female Rainmakers and Leaders," panelist, Ladder Down Cleveland (August 2019)
- ?Planning in the Digital Age,? Ulmer Tax Seminar Series ll (August 2018)

?How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Fiduciary Rule. An Advisor's Primer to making a Living Under the
New Regime," NAIFA Cleveland program series (May 2017)

0 ?Women as Visionary Leaders," panelist, 3rd Annual Women?s Law Leadership Conference (October 2014)

Publications

. Seeks to Clarify Fiduciary Rule Timing With Temporary Enforcement Policy,? Ulmer Berne LLP Client
Alert (March 2017)

- Supreme Court Upholds Key Provisions ofthe Affordable Care Act,? Ulmer Berne LLP, Client Alert
(June 2015)

- Amendments to Prohibit Lump-Sum Windows for Retirees Already Receiving Annuity Payments,?
Ulmer Berne LLP, Client Alert (July 2015)

. ?Trends in Health Care and Pension Benefits,? chapter author, Recent Changes in Employee Benefits and
Executive Compensation, 2014 ed.: Leading Lawyers on Understanding Changes, Navigating Disclosure
Guidelines, and Designing Compliance Strategies, Thomson Reuters/Aspatore (April 2014)

. ?Female Powerbrokers Ulmer Berne's Patty Shlonsky,? Law360 (January 2014)
. ?Sixth Circuit Says Severance Payments Not Subject to Ulmer Berne LLP, Client Alert (October 2012)

0 ?Summary of Benefits and Coverage (SBC) for insured and Self-Insured Group Medical Plans Required
Commencing,? Ulmer Berne LLP, ClientAlert (September 2012)

?Department of Labor Provides Additional Guidance for Compliance with Looming Fee Disclosure
Requirements," Ulmer Berne LLP, Client Alert (August 2012)

 

_U__lmer Page5

AT 0 Ft Ulmer.com

Patricia A. Shlonsky, Partner

Partner?ln?Charge, Cleveland Chair, Employee Benefits, Tax and Trusts Estates

 

Involvement
Professional Affiliations

. American Bar Association

0 Ohio State Bar Association

. Cleveland Metropolitan Bar Association

0 WEB (Worldwide Employee Benefits)

. American College of Employee Benefits Counsel (Fellow)

0 American Society of Pension Professionals and Actuaries Benefits Council of Cleveland (Former Vice President
and Trustee)

Community Involvement
Cuyahoga County Public Library (President, Board of Trustees)

- The City Club of Cleveland (Vice President, Board of Directors; Co?Chair, Program Committee)
BVU: The Center for Nonprofit Excellence (Board of Directors)
. Cuyahoga County Public Library. Foundation (Board Member 2008-2016)

. The Center for Community Solutions (Vice Chair, Board of Directors; Chair, Policy Program Advisory
Committee)

. The Cleveland Jewish Community Federation (Member, Retirement Fund Committee)
. Leadership Cleveland (Member, Class of 2012)
. College Now (Former Board of Directors)

. Dress for Success Cleveland (Honorary Board Member; Board Member 2003-201 1; Past Board Chair
2005-2008)

Firm Involvement

. Partner-In?Charge, Cleveland Office
0 Management Committee
. Employee Benefits, Tax and Trust Estates, Chair

Honors Distinctions
. Crain?s Cleveland Business ?Women of Note" Award Recipient (2017)

0 Ranked as one of Ohio 5 Leaders in Their Field? in Employee Benefits Executive Compensation by
Chambers USA: America?s Leading Lawyers for Business (2007-2019)

. Designated Best Lawyers Employee Benefits (ERISA) "Lawyer of the Year" in Cleveland (2015; 2017)
Named to The Best Lawyers in America, Employee Benefits (ERISA) Law; Litigation ERISA (2003?2020)
. ?Notable Women in Law," Crain?s Cleveland Business (2018)

Named a ?Woman Worth Watching? by Profiles in Diversity Journal (2016)

?L? mer Page6

AT U'mer'cm

 

Patricia A. Shlonsky, Partner

Partner-ln?Charge, Cleveland Chair, Employee Benefits, Tax and Trusts Estates

 

Honors Distinctions (Cont)
. Lexology Client Choice Award (2016)

. Named to the Ohio Super Lawyers list (2004-2009; 2011-2019)
. AV Preeminent Peer Review Rated Martindale-Hubbell
Named a ?Top Lawyer" by Northern Ohio Live Magazine (August 2003)

- Recognized as one of the Top 50 Female Lawyers in the State of Ohio and one of the Top 25 Female Lawyers
in Cleveland by Ohio Super Lawyers (2013; 2014; 2016)

Admissions
. State of Ohio

. US. Supreme Court

0 US. Tax Court

. US. Court of Appeals, Sixth Circuit

. US. Court of Appeals, Seventh Circuit

a US. District Court, Northern District of Ohio

. US. District Court, Southern District of Ohio

0 US. District Court, Eastern District of Michigan

 

Almer Page 7

ATTORNEYS U'mer'wm

County Council of Cuyahoga County, Ohio
Resolution No. R2019-0266
Sponsored by: County Executive
Budish

A Resolution confirming the County
Executive’s appointment of Teri A. Agosta
to serve on the Gateway Economic
Development Corporation of Greater
Cleveland Board of Trustees for an
unexpired term ending 5/31/2022, and
declaring the necessity that this Resolution
become immediately effective.

WHEREAS, the Gateway Economic Development Corporation of Greater
Cleveland was established pursuant to the provisions of ORC Section 307.696; and
WHEREAS, the powers and duties for the Gateway Economic Development
Corporation of Greater Cleveland Board of Trustees are to determine responsibilities
affiliated with the construction and maintenance of facilities as well as property
issues, financing obligations and capital repairs for the sports facilities; and
WHEREAS, the Gateway Economic Development Corporation of Greater
Cleveland Board of Trustees shall consist of five members; two appointed by the City
of Cleveland, two appointed by the County of Cuyahoga and one member jointly
appointed; and
WHEREAS, the Cuyahoga County Charter Section 6.04, entitled Special Boards
and Commissions, states that “[w]hen general law or any agreement with another
public agency or court order provides for appointment of members of a special board
or commission or other agency by the board of county commissioners, such
appointment shall be made by the County Executive, subject to confirmation by the
Council,” and
WHEREAS, the County Executive has nominated Teri A. Agosta (replacing
William J. Reidy) to be appointed to serve on the Gateway Economic Development
Corporation of Greater Cleveland Board of Trustee for an unexpired term ending
5/31/2022; and
WHEREAS, this Council by a vote of at least eight (8) members determines that
it is necessary that this Resolution become immediately effective in order that Charter
requirements can be complied with and critical services provides by Cuyahoga
County can continue and to provide for the usual, daily operation of a County Board.

1

 NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COUNTY COUNCIL OF
CUYAHOGA COUNTY, OHIO:
SECTION 1. That the Cuyahoga County Council hereby confirms the County
Executive’s appointment of Teri A. Agosta to serve on the Gateway Economic
Development Corporation of Greater Cleveland Board of Trustees for an unexpired
term ending 5/31/2022.
SECTION 2. It is necessary that this Resolution become immediately effective
for the usual daily operation of the County; the preservation of public peace, health,
or safety in the County; and any additional reasons set forth in the preamble.
Provided that this Resolution receives the affirmative vote of at least eight members
of Council, this Resolution shall become immediately effective.
SECTION 3. It is found and determined that all formal actions of this Council
concerning and relating to the adoption of this Resolution were adopted in an open
meeting of the Council, and that all deliberations of this Council and of any of its
committees that resulted in such formal action were in meetings open to the public, in
compliance with all legal requirements, including Section 121.22 of the Ohio Revised
Code.

On a motion by __________, seconded by _________, the foregoing Resolution was
duly adopted.
Yeas:
Nays:

_________________________
County Council President

__________
Date

_________________________
Clerk of Council

__________
Date

First Reading/Referred to Committee: November 26, 2019
Committee(s) Assigned: Human Resources, Appointments & Equity
Journal ______________
_______________, 20__

2

 Cuyahoga County
Together We Thrive

 

Armond Budish
Cuyahoga County Executive

November 19, 2019

Dan Brady, President
Cuyahoga County Council
2079 E. Ninth Street, 8th Floor
Cleveland, OH 44115

Re: Gateway Economic Development Corporation of Greater Cleveland Board of Trustees
Dear President Brady,

I am pleased to nominate the following individual for appointment to the Gateway
Economic Development Corporation of Greater Cleveland Board of Trustees:

Terri A. Agosta, unexpired term ending 05/31/2022 (replacing William].
Reidy]

Gateway is an Ohio non-profit corporation established pursuant to Ohio Revised Code
Section 307.696. The Board of Trustees of this corporation is composed of representatives
from the City of Cleveland as well as Cuyahoga County.

There are no other candidates on file for these positions. I have attached Ms. Agosta?s
resume for your review.

There are no known con?icts of interest for which an advisory opinion has been requested.
This board is uncompensated.

Thank you for your consideration of this appointment. Should you or any of your
colleagues have any questions, please feel free to contact Michele Pomerantz in my office at
216-443-7125.

Sincerely,

dogma.

Armond Budish
Cuyahoga County Executive

2079 East Ninth Street Cleveland, Ohio 44115 216-443-7178 

TERI A. AGOSTA

Summary

Accomplished General Manager with over 20 years of leadership positions with Hilton Hotel Corporation in
five different hotels and resorts. Demonstrated expertise in repositioning hotels and resorts and increasing
profitability and market share. Prior hotel experience with independents and boutique four-star properties.
Sales and Marketing leadership was entry point into the hotel Industry. Leadership built on strong marketing
and operational skills.

Demonstrated Accomplishments

Operational Effectiveness

Increased market share by over 10 index points in all hotels; consistently rated as first or second
in the market place.

Focused on strong profit margins?--in all departments, particularity food and beverage.

Guest service scores above company average, and consistently in green status at year-end.

All quality assurance, food and beverage and operational audits consistently above average.
Team member scores increased in the high nineties percentile.

Labor productivity standards achieved through focused scheduling review.

Consistent team meetings to develop fun, team member morale, and creative and expanded
revenue opportunities.

sight inspections to insure high conversions of tentative.

DECIDED 



Achievements and Awards

Past three properties achieved all green balance scorecards, during tenure as General Manager.
Largest Rev-Par increase (2001 Doubletree-WDC).

Hotelier of the Year-Delaware Hotel and Lodging Association (2003).

General Manager of the Year-Hospitality Sales and Marketing Association International-Arizona
Chapter (2010).

Profitability Award-Pointe Hilton Squaw Peak (2012).

Six of Six KPI's Green (2012).

USED



Development and Promotion
El Mentored and promoted at numerous Executive Committee members to more advanced
positions in new hotels at each property.
Cl Focused on promoting number twos to management positions and Executive Committee
members.
Identified one to two ?leaders in training" a year to move up within the corporation.

Renovation and Construction
El Completed over 45 million dollars in renovation at Pointe Hilton Squaw Peak, to include new Spa
and Health Club.
El Completed over six million dollars in cap-ex and facility improvements at Doubletree Hotel-
Wilmington.
Completed Room Design and Public Area Renovation of Doubletree WDC.

EXPERIENCE

HILTON WORLDWIDE, Cleveland, OH 2015-Present
General Manager, Hilton Cleveland Downtown
Manages a $272 million new-build, county-owned, BOO?room convention center hotel opening June 2016
and host hotel for the 2016 Republican National Convention.
Initiated and build Hilton?s presence in Cleveland including corporate partnership and philanthropic
opportunities.

HILTON WORLDWIDE, Phoenix, AZ 2006-2015
General Manager, Pointe Hilton Squaw Peak Resort
Manager daily operations of 24 acre resort to encompass 574 suites, three restaurants, spa and waterpark.
Opened 2 million dollar Spa and Health Club.
Managed 45 million dollar renovation of Resort.
Increased RevPar Index by 11.5% in four years from 99.7 to 116.4.
Rebranded and re-opened new neighborhood-style resort restaurant.

HILTON WORLDWIDE, Wilmington, DE 2000-2006
General Manager, Doubletree Hotel

Increased revenue by 28% and IBFC by 39% in four years.

Increased yield by 23 points in four years.

10 out of 12 ?Green? ratings in 2003; 9 out of 10 in 2004; and all ?Green? ratings in 2005.

Strong group marketer.

Introduced complete meeting packages to hotel.

HILTON WORLDWIDE, Washington, DC 1998-2000
General Manager, Doubletree Hotel

Increased total revenues by 27.6% year over year.

Increased GOP 62.7% year over year.

Achieved 113.4 yield.

HILTON WORLDWIDE, Baltimore/Washington Airport 1995-1998
Director of Marketing, Doubletree Guest Suites
Achieved 103% of budgeted revenue
Positioned hotel in training market, securing three new training accounts: Bell Atlantic, PDA and Goldwel].
Motivated and trained new sales team managers to consistently exceed goals.

HILTON WORLDWIDE, Baltimore, MD 1993-1995

Director of Marketing, Doubletree Inn at the Colonnade
Transitioned hotel from independent to successful Doubletree.
Exceeded budgeted revenue by 107%.
Hotel awarded ?General Manager of the Year? in response to increased revenues and yield penetration
during my tenure.

MARKETING ENVIRONMENTS, Chicago, IL 1991-1993
Director of Marketing

PRIME MANAGEMENT, Chicago, IL 1989-1991
Regional Director of Marketing

CONGRESS HOTEL, Chicago, IL 1986?1988
Director of Marketing

SHERATON HOTEL, Towson, MD 1986-1988
Director of Marketing

POTOMAC HOTEL GROUP, Washington, DC 1981-1986
Director of Marketing

 

EDUCATION

Bachelor?s Degree in Business Administration/Marketing
Grand Valley University, Grand Rapids, MI

Studied abroad at L?Institute D?Tours, France

County Council of Cuyahoga County, Ohio
Resolution No. R2019-0279
Sponsored by: County Executive
Budish/Department of Human
Resources

A Resolution authorizing and ratifying the
structure for payment of compensation to 33
County employees whose base salaries
exceed the maximum for the applicable salary
ranges for their respective positions, and
declaring the necessity that this Resolution
become immediately effective.

WHEREAS, the County Executive implemented a general wage increase
effective January 2019, while the 2019 Non-Bargaining salary ranges were approved in
March 2019 with no increase to those ranges, resulting in the base salaries of 33
employees that exceed the maximum for the applicable salary ranges for their
respective positions; and
WHEREAS, the 2019 Non-Bargaining salary ranges did not reflect an increase
based on the Department of Human Resource’s recommendation to the Personnel
Review Commission that, as a best compensation practice, salary ranges should not
move at the same rate as the general wage increase.
WHEREAS, the County Executive/Department of Human Resources has
recommended a one-time compensation structure for those 33 County employees
whose salaries exceed the maximum for the applicable salary ranges for their respective
positions; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary that this Resolution become immediately effective in
order that critical services provided by Cuyahoga County can continue and to provide
for the usual, daily operation of a County entity.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COUNTY COUNCIL OF
CUYAHOGA COUNTY, OHIO:
SECTION 1. That the Cuyahoga County Council hereby authorizes and ratifies
the following compensation structure for payment of compensation to 33 County
employees whose base salaries exceed the maximum for the applicable salary ranges
for their respective positions:
(1)

for 2019, allow the base salaries of the 33 impacted employee salaries to
exceed the maximum for their salary ranges as a result of the January 2019
general wage increase, with compensation paid in 2019 prior to the adoption

 of this Resolution authorized and ratified as if the same were duly
authorized at the time of their occurrence; and
(2)

for 2020, following both a planned 2020 general wage increase and a
planned increase to the 2020 non-bargaining salary ranges, allow the base
salaries of the 33 impacted employee salaries to reach the maximum for
their applicable salary ranges, and pay the remainder of the general wage
increase as a lump-sum payment.

SECTION 2. It is necessary that this Resolution become immediately effective
for the usual daily operation of the County; the preservation of public peace, health, or
safety in the County; and any additional reasons set forth in the preamble. Provided that
this Resolution receives the affirmative vote of at least eight members of Council, it
shall take effect and be in force immediately upon the earliest occurrence of any of the
following: (1) its approval by the County Executive through signature, (2) the
expiration of the time during which it may be disapproved by the County Executive
under Section 3.10(6) of the Cuyahoga County Charter, or (3) its passage by at least
eight members of Council after disapproval pursuant to Section 3.10(7) of the
Cuyahoga County Charter. Otherwise, it shall take effect and be in force from and after
the earliest period allowed by law.
SECTION 3. It is found and determined that all formal actions of this Council
relating to the adoption of this Resolution were adopted in an open meeting of the
Council, and that all deliberations of this Council and of any of its committees that
resulted in such formal action were in meetings open to the public, in compliance with
all legal requirements, including Section 121.22 of the Ohio Revised Code.

On a motion by _________, seconded by _________, the foregoing Resolution was
duly adopted.
Yeas:
Nays:

_________________________
County Council President

__________
Date

_________________________
County Executive

__________
Date

_________________________
Clerk of Council

__________
Date

2

 First Reading/Referred to Committee: November 26, 2019
Committee(s) Assigned: Human Resources, Appointments & Equity
Journal _______
_________, 2019

3

 County Council of Cuyahoga County, Ohio
Resolution No. R2019-0280
Sponsored by: County Executive
Budish/Department of Human
Resources

A Resolution making an award on RQ45619
to MedMutual Life Insurance Company in
the amount not-to-exceed $5,400,368.00 for
group life, voluntary life and accidental death
insurance for County employees for the
period 1/1/2020 - 12/31/2022; authorizing
the County Executive to execute the contract
and all other documents consistent with said
award and this Resolution; and declaring the
necessity that this Resolution become
immediately effective.

WHEREAS, the County Executive/Department of Human Resources has
recommended an award on RQ45619 to MedMutual Life Insurance Company in the
amount not-to-exceed $5,400,368.00 for group life, voluntary life and accidental
death insurance for County employees for the period 1/1/2020 - 12/31/2022; and
WHEREAS, the primary goal of this project is to provide group life, voluntary
life and accidental death insurance for County employees; and
WHEREAS, the project is 100% funded by the Hospitalization Regular Insurance
Fund; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary that this Resolution become immediately effective in
order that critical services provided by Cuyahoga County can continue and to provide
for the usual, daily operation of a County entity.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COUNTY COUNCIL OF
CUYAHOGA COUNTY, OHIO:
SECTION 1. That the Cuyahoga County Council hereby makes an award on
RQ45619 to MedMutual Life Insurance Company in the amount not-to-exceed
$5,400,368.00 for group life, voluntary life and accidental death insurance for County
employees for the period 1/1/2020 - 12/31/2022.
SECTION 2. That the County Executive is authorized to execute the contract
and all other documents consistent with said award and this Resolution.
SECTION 3. It is necessary that this Resolution become immediately effective
for the usual daily operation of the County; the preservation of public peace, health or

1

 safety in the County; and any additional reasons set forth in the preamble. Provided
that this Resolution receives the affirmative vote of at least eight members of Council,
it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon the earliest occurrence of any of
the following: (1) its approval by the County Executive through signature, (2) the
expiration of the time during which it may be disapproved by the County Executive
under Section 3.10(6) of the Cuyahoga County Charter, or (3) its passage by at least
eight members of Council after disapproval pursuant to Section 3.10(7) of the
Cuyahoga County Charter. Otherwise, it shall take effect and be in force from and
after the earliest period allowed by law.
SECTION 4. It is found and determined that all formal actions of this Council
relating to the adoption of this Resolution were adopted in an open meeting of the
Council, and that all deliberations of this Council and of any of its committees that
resulted in such formal action were in meetings open to the public, in compliance
with all legal requirements, including Section 121.22 of the Ohio Revised Code.

On a motion by __________, seconded by _________, the foregoing Resolution was
duly adopted.
Yeas:
Nays:

_________________________
County Council President

__________
Date

_________________________
County Executive

__________
Date

_________________________
Clerk of Council

__________
Date

First Reading/Referred to Committee: November 26, 2019
Committee(s) Assigned: Human Resources, Appointments & Equity
Journal ______________
_______________, 20__

2

 County Council of Cuyahoga County, Ohio
Resolution No. R2019-0281
Sponsored by: County Executive
Budish/Department of Human
Resources

A Resolution making an award on RQ45619
to The Guardian Life Insurance Company of
America in the amount not-to-exceed
$9,848,526.00 for dental insurance for
County employees and their eligible
dependents for the period 1/1/2020 12/31/2022;
authorizing
the
County
Executive to execute the contract and all
other documents consistent with said award
and this Resolution; and declaring the
necessity that this Resolution become
immediately effective.

WHEREAS, the County Executive/Department of Human Resources has
recommended an award on RQ45619 to The Guardian Life Insurance Company of
America in the amount not-to-exceed $9,848,526.00 for dental insurance for County
employees and their eligible dependents for the period 1/1/2020 - 12/31/2022; and
WHEREAS, the primary goal of this project is to provide dental insurance for
County employees and their eligible dependents; and
WHEREAS, the project is 100% funded by the Hospitalization Regular Insurance
Fund; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary that this Resolution become immediately effective in
order that critical services provided by Cuyahoga County can continue and to provide
for the usual, daily operation of a County entity.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COUNTY COUNCIL OF
CUYAHOGA COUNTY, OHIO:
SECTION 1. That the Cuyahoga County Council hereby makes an award on
RQ45619 to The Guardian Life Insurance Company of America in the amount not-toexceed $9,848,526.00 for dental insurance for County employees and their eligible
dependents for the period 1/1/2020 - 12/31/2022.
SECTION 2. That the County Executive is authorized to execute the contract
and all other documents consistent with said award and this Resolution.

1

 SECTION 3. It is necessary that this Resolution become immediately effective
for the usual daily operation of the County; the preservation of public peace, health or
safety in the County; and any additional reasons set forth in the preamble. Provided
that this Resolution receives the affirmative vote of at least eight members of Council,
it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon the earliest occurrence of any of
the following: (1) its approval by the County Executive through signature, (2) the
expiration of the time during which it may be disapproved by the County Executive
under Section 3.10(6) of the Cuyahoga County Charter, or (3) its passage by at least
eight members of Council after disapproval pursuant to Section 3.10(7) of the
Cuyahoga County Charter. Otherwise, it shall take effect and be in force from and
after the earliest period allowed by law.
SECTION 4. It is found and determined that all formal actions of this Council
relating to the adoption of this Resolution were adopted in an open meeting of the
Council, and that all deliberations of this Council and of any of its committees that
resulted in such formal action were in meetings open to the public, in compliance
with all legal requirements, including Section 121.22 of the Ohio Revised Code.

On a motion by __________, seconded by _________, the foregoing Resolution was
duly adopted.
Yeas:
Nays:

_________________________
County Council President

__________
Date

_________________________
County Executive

__________
Date

_________________________
Clerk of Council

__________
Date

First Reading/Referred to Committee: November 26, 2019
Committee(s) Assigned: Human Resources, Appointments & Equity
Journal ______________
_______________, 20__

2

 County Council of Cuyahoga County, Ohio
Resolution No. R2019-0282
Sponsored by: County Executive
Budish/Department of Human
Resources

A Resolution making an award on RQ45619
to Vision Service Plan in the amount not-toexceed $1,823,399.00 for vision insurance
for County employees and their eligible
dependents for the period 1/1/2020 12/31/2022;
authorizing
the
County
Executive to execute the contract and all
other documents consistent with said award
and this Resolution; and declaring the
necessity that this Resolution become
immediately effective.

WHEREAS, the County Executive/Department of Human Resources has
recommended an award on RQ45619 to Vision Service Plan in the amount not-toexceed $1,823,399.00 for vision insurance for County employees and their eligible
dependents for the period 1/1/2020 - 12/31/2022; and
WHEREAS, the primary goal of this project is to provide vision insurance for
County employees and their eligible dependents; and
WHEREAS, the project is 100% funded by the Hospitalization Regular Insurance
Fund; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary that this Resolution become immediately effective in
order that critical services provided by Cuyahoga County can continue and to provide
for the usual, daily operation of a County entity.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COUNTY COUNCIL OF
CUYAHOGA COUNTY, OHIO:
SECTION 1. That the Cuyahoga County Council hereby makes an award on
RQ45619 to Vision Service Plan in the amount not-to-exceed $1,823,399.00 for
vision insurance for County employees and their eligible dependents for the period
1/1/2020 - 12/31/2022.
SECTION 2. That the County Executive is authorized to execute the contract
and all other documents consistent with said award and this Resolution.
SECTION 3. It is necessary that this Resolution become immediately effective
for the usual daily operation of the County; the preservation of public peace, health or

1

 safety in the County; and any additional reasons set forth in the preamble. Provided
that this Resolution receives the affirmative vote of at least eight members of Council,
it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon the earliest occurrence of any of
the following: (1) its approval by the County Executive through signature, (2) the
expiration of the time during which it may be disapproved by the County Executive
under Section 3.10(6) of the Cuyahoga County Charter, or (3) its passage by at least
eight members of Council after disapproval pursuant to Section 3.10(7) of the
Cuyahoga County Charter. Otherwise, it shall take effect and be in force from and
after the earliest period allowed by law.
SECTION 4. It is found and determined that all formal actions of this Council
relating to the adoption of this Resolution were adopted in an open meeting of the
Council, and that all deliberations of this Council and of any of its committees that
resulted in such formal action were in meetings open to the public, in compliance
with all legal requirements, including Section 121.22 of the Ohio Revised Code.

On a motion by __________, seconded by _________, the foregoing Resolution was
duly adopted.
Yeas:
Nays:

_________________________
County Council President

__________
Date

_________________________
County Executive

__________
Date

_________________________
Clerk of Council

__________
Date

First Reading/Referred to Committee: November 26, 2019
Committee(s) Assigned: Human Resources, Appointments & Equity
Journal ______________
_______________, 20__

2

 