Board Meeting
5-24-2019
Attending:
Jeff Hastings, Chairman
Inajo Davis Chappell, Member
Robert S. Frost, Member
Anthony Perlatti, Director
Shantiel Soeder, Deputy Director
Brendan Doyle, Assistant Prosecutor, Cuyahoga County
Anthony Alto, Clerk to the Board
Linda Walker, Clerk to the Board

The Board Meeting began at 2:00 pm.
Chairman Hastings noted that board members Chappell, and Frost were present. The Board voted
unanimously to excuse Board Member Wondolowski from today’s meeting.

Agenda Item 1: Certification of the Official Results of the May 7, 2019 Primary Election
Ballot Department Assistant Manager Jason Culek stated that there were a total of 35, 872 ballots
tabulated for the May 7, 2019 Primary Election. A total of 209 provisional ballots were cast in-house on
Election Day. Of those ballots 178 were valid and tabulated by the Ballot Department. There were 31
invalid provisional ballots resulting in a 14.83% rejection rate for this election. During the election, 31
ballot sheets were processed in accordance with the Board of Elections’ Remake Policy. Of those, 27
were processed during the Unofficial Canvass. The remaining four (4) ballot sheets processed during the
Official Canvass. There were a total of 12 over-votes recorded. Voter history will be completed in
accordance with SOS Directive 2019-05 and transmitted to the Statewide Voter Registration Database
following certification. There is one (1) automatic recount for this election. The recount will be conducted
beginning Wednesday, May 29th, 2019 at 9:30 am. The requested recount deadline is Wednesday, May
29th at 4:00 pm. The post-election audit will be conducted for Strongsville Council Ward 1.
The Board voted unanimously to authorize remaking the optical scan ballots for the May 7, 2019 Primary
Election.
The Board voted unanimously to approve absentee ballots from the May 7, 2019 Primary Election.
The Board voted unanimously to approve provisional ballots from the May 7, 2019 Primary Election.
The Board voted unanimously to acknowledge the pre & post-election test results of the vote tabulation
1

 system from the May 7, 2019 Primary Election.
The Board voted unanimously to acknowledge the official district wide results of the May 7, 2019
Primary Election for Cuyahoga and Lorain Counties.
Chairman Hastings abstained from voting on the certification of all election contests in the City of Parma.
Board Members Chappell and Frost voted to certify the official results for all election contests in the City
of Parma from the May 7, 2019 Primary Election.
The Board voted unanimously to certify the rest of the official results from the May 7, 2019 Primary
Election.
Agenda Item 2: Acknowledgement of the date, time, and place of the post-election audit for the
Strongsville Council Ward 1 Contest from the May 7, 2019 Primary Election
The Board voted unanimously to acknowledge the date, time, and place of the post-election audit for the
Strongsville Council Ward 1 Contest from the May 7, 2019 Primary Election.
New Business:
Election Recap:
Director Perlatti stated that the May Primary was a success. There were no problems at the polling
locations. Voter turnout was a little over 21 percent. In-house voting was different for this election. We
have no duty to report back to the Secretary of State on in-house voting. Each department is continuing
lessons learned.
Public Comment:
Adele Eisner:
Ms. Eisner spoke about transparency of contracts and a new early voting location.
The Board voted unanimously to adjourn at 2:21 pm.

2

 Certi?cation: I have reviewed the above minutes and certify that they are an accurate summary of the
actions taken by the Cuyahoga County Board of Elections at its meetin he . on May 24, 2019.

I

  

Jeff Hastings, Chairman

Inajo Davis Chappell, Member

Robert S. Frost, Member

 

David J. Wondolowski, Member 

Anthony Perlatti, Director 

