C UYAHOG A C O U N T Y P U BL I C L I B R A RY

BOARD OF TRUSTEES’ MEETING

Monday, October 21, 2019 / 5:00 p.m.
Ad m in is tr a ti ve O f fi c es / 2 1 2 1 S now R oa d , P ar ma

 CUYAHOGA COUNTY PUBLIC LIBRARY
BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING AGENDA
21 October 2019
ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING AUDITORIUM
5:00 p.m.

TOPIC

TAB#

PAGE#

1. Call to Order: Patricia Shlonsky, President

MOTION
ROLL-CALL

2. Approval of Minutes: September 24, 2019 Board Meeting

1

1-7

ACTION

3. Approval of Minutes: October 7, 2019 Special Board
Meeting – Work Session
4. Public Comment

1

8-17

ACTION
INFORMATION

5. Report of the Board President

INFORMATION

6. Report of the Executive Director

2

18-28

INFORMATION

7. Human Resources Report

3

29-34

ACTION

8.





4

35-36
37-41
42
43
44

Finance Committee Report:
Financial Statement Review – Fiscal 2019 – September
Investments: Fiscal 2019 – September
Purchase Approval List
Gift Report

9. New Business
 Resolution to Amend Official Certificate of Estimated
Resources and Amend Appropriations
 Resolution Requesting the Cuyahoga County Fiscal
Officer to Certify the Total Current Tax Valuation of the
Library District of the Cuyahoga County Public Library,
Cuyahoga County, Ohio and the Amount to be
Generated During the First Year of Collection of an
Additional Tax of 0.50 Mill for Purpose of Current
Expenses of the Cuyahoga County Public Library for a
Continuing Period of Time
 Resolution Requesting the Cuyahoga County Fiscal
Officer to Certify the Total Current Tax Valuation of the
Library District of the Cuyahoga County Public Library,
Cuyahoga County, Ohio and the Amount to be
Generated During the First Year of Collection of an
Additional Tax of 0.70 Mill for Purpose of Current
Expenses of the Cuyahoga County Public Library for a
Continuing Period of Time
 Resolution Requesting the Cuyahoga County Fiscal
Officer to Certify the Total Current Tax Valuation of the
Library District of the Cuyahoga County Public Library,
Cuyahoga County, Ohio and the Amount to be
Generated During the First Year of Collection of an
Additional Tax of 1.0 Mill for Purpose of Current
Expenses of the Cuyahoga County Public Library for a
Continuing Period of Time
 Resolution Requesting the Council of The County of
Cuyahoga, Ohio to Submit to the Electors of the Library
District of the Cuyahoga County Public Library the
Question of an Additional Tax of __MILL for the Purpose
of Current Expenses of the Cuyahoga County Public
Library for a Continuing Period of Time
10. Adjourn

INFORMATION
ROLL-CALL
ACTION

5
45

ROLL-CALL
ROLL-CALL

ROLL-CALL

ROLL-CALL

ROLL-CALL

ACTION

 1
CUYAHOGA COUNTY PUBLIC LIBRARY
BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING
MINUTES
24 September 2019
The September 24, 2019 meeting of the Cuyahoga County Public Library Board of Trustees was held at
the Cuyahoga County Public Library Administration Building Auditorium, 2111 Snow Road, Parma, Ohio.
With a quorum of six (6) Board members present, President Shlonsky called the meeting to order at 5:00
p.m.
Roll-Call:

Present: Edward H. Blakemore; Allyn Davies; Dean E. DePiero; Patricia A.
Shlonsky; Maria L. Spangler; Robert W. Varley – 6.
Absent: William J. Leonard – 1.

Also present: Executive Director Tracy Strobel; Operations Director and Fiscal Officer Scott Morgan;
Communications and External Relations Director Hallie Rich; Acting Human Resources Director Larry
Miller; Facilities Director Jeff Mori; Assistant Marketing & Communications Director Rob Rua;
Development Director Bridget Hawes; Literacy and Learning Division Director Pamela Jankowski; Branch
Services Director - East Enda Bracken; Branch Services Director – West Caroline Vicchiarelli; Technical
Services Director Daniel Barden; IT Director Jim Haprian; Union Representatives, and other interested
observers.


Resolution to Amend Official Certificate of Estimated Resources and Amend
Appropriations
President Shlonsky mentioned this resolution is first on the agenda as Trustee DePiero cannot stay for
the entire Board of Trustees meeting and we need a super majority for this resolution to pass.
Director Morgan stated we are requesting amendment to both estimated resources and appropriations.
These are all related to the special revenue funds. Three of these are adjustments to the amounts we
previously brought to the Board as estimates to get them appropriated to start spending money out of
those accounts. We have adjusted those to the actual amounts. We are asking for an additional
$45,972.00 for Adult Education Services (AES). The Homework Centers we are asking for a decrease of
$4,203.00 and Special School Programming we are asking for a decrease of $39,423.65.
Director Morgan stated the TCF Fellow is being funded by The Cleveland Foundation for $50,000.00 for
one year. We have a new program Poetry Out Loud we are doing in conjunction with the Ohio Arts
Council for $5,000.00
01-09/2019
Trustee Blakemore moved approval, seconded by Trustee DePiero. Seeing no additional discussion, the
Resolution to Amend Official Certificate of Estimated Resources and Amend Appropriations was
approved by unanimous vote of the Board members present. (See page 278)
Roll-Call:

Yea: Edward H. Blakemore; Allyn Davies; Dean E. DePiero; Patricia A.
Shlonsky; Maria L. Spangler; Robert W. Varley; – 6.
Nea: – 0.

President Shlonsky appointed Trustee Varley as acting Secretary for the meeting.

271   P a g e

 2
Approval of Minutes:
President Shlonsky asked for a motion to approve the minutes of the July 23, 2019 Board meeting that
were sent to the Board members in advance of this meeting.
02-09/2019
Trustee Blakemore moved to approve the minutes, seconded by Trustee Spangler. Seeing no
corrections, omissions or additions, the minutes of the July 23, 2019 Board Meeting were approved by
unanimous vote of the Board members present.
Trustee DePiero left the Board of Trustee’s meeting at 5:12 P.M.
Retiree Recognition:
President Shlonsky recognized and thanked Vicki Adams-Cook, Deborah Archibald and Cynthia
Frederick for their many years of service to Cuyahoga County Public Library (CCPL) and wished them the
best on their retirement. Vicki Adams-Cook and Deborah Archibald was not present at the meeting. (See
pages 279-281)
Stacey Boycik, Branch Manager, CCPL Parma-Snow Branch, read the resolution for Cynthia Frederick
into the record.
Ms. Frederick mentioned she have been grateful and thankful for this job it has served her and her family
well. Working at CCPL Parma-Snow Branch is where her heart is, and we need to be proud for what we
have. This have been a great job. She commented she will always support the library as a volunteer.
Public Comment:
There was no public comment.
Report of the Board President:
President Shlonsky welcomed Tracy Strobel our new Executive Director, it’s great to have you and we are
very excited and looking for a good long tenure with you. President Shlonsky mentioned we had a
wonderful retirement celebration in honor of Former Executive Director Feldman. She thanked the entire
Development team and the Media Services team for an amazing event and fundraiser and for doing an
amazing job.
Report of the Executive Director:
Executive Director Strobel thanked CCPL Board of Trustees for putting their trust and confidence in her
and she look forward to serving CCPL for many years and through that serving the public with the best
library services in the nation.
Executive Director Strobel mentioned for the Cleveland Chapter we will be awarded the 2019 “Client
Award” from the American Institute of Architects (AIA) at their annual AIA Cleveland Design Awards
ceremony on November 1. This award identifies clients who consistently support Cleveland architects and
architecture. We are very honored to receive the “Client Award”. We are receiving it because of our
dedication to hiring local architects and construction firms in the Northeast Ohio region.
Executive Director Strobel mentioned Trustee Shlonsky received an award and was inducted to the
American College of Employee Benefit Council, it’s a great honor. We are very proud to have you as our
Board President.

272   P a g e

 3
Executive Director Strobel asked Caroline Vicchiarelli, Branch Services Director-West and Enda Bracken,
Branch Services Director-East, to introduce three new Branch Managers. They are coming to our team
from different experiences and we are excited and proud to have them on board.
Caroline Vicchiarelli, Branch Services Director – West, introduced Shayna Muckerheide, CCPL Brook
Park Branch Manager. Ms. Muckerheide comes to us from the Cleveland Public Library (CPL) where she
worked as a Branch Manager and more recently the Adult Outreach and Programming Coordinator. She
also worked at the Belden Public Library and the Arizona State Library. Welcome Shayna Muckerheide to
CCPL.
Enda Bracken, Branch Services Director- East, introduced Darlene Davis, CCPL Southeast Branch
Manager. Ms. Davis previously worked at CPL and she have been with CCPL for eleven years. She has
worked at the Warrensville Heights, Maple Heights, Beachwood and Southeast Branches in positions
ranging from Branch Services Assistant to Teen Librarian, to Branch Services Librarian Supervisor. Ms.
Davis is looking forward to strengthening the branch and the key roles in the community that it serves.
Congratulations Darlene Davis.
Enda Bracken, Branch Services Director – East, introduced Anthony Furino, he became CCPL Orange
Branch Manager at the end of March 2019. Mr. Furino started his career at CCPL as a Page and have
progressed his career and became Branch Services Assistant, Teen Librarian and Branch Services
Librarian Supervisor. He has worked at many of the branches throughout the system. He has brought his
skills and talent to the Orange Branch. Congratulations Anthony Furino.
Director Morgan presented CCPL’s budget projection for 2020-2028 based on all the projects and
expenses we have for the next ten years.
Executive Director Strobel stated the Library has limited options for increasing the receipts or revenue
side. She invited the Board to study those options and contemplate what our options are moving forward
and the pros and cons of each of those. She stated our primary option for increasing our revenue is to
return to the ballot and we have not gone to the ballot since November 2008, which is great for an agency
of our type and size. We are asking the Board to guide us through that process to avoid shortfalls in the
future.
Report of the CCPL Foundation
Trustee Blakemore CCPL’s Liaison, for the Foundation Board commented, it was a great retirement
celebration in honor of Former Executive Director Feldman. It was also a great gala event and a
remarkable fundraiser effort. The great partnership with the Foundation Board and the Operating Board
raised nearly $250,000.00. The Foundation Board will be meeting within the next week to review various
slate proposals for allocations. Last year we allocated $120,000.00 for Homework Centers, Staff
Development Days and New Baby Kits some of those requests will be forthcoming and we’re looking
forward to issuing some grants.
Human Resources Report:
Acting Human Resources Director Miller referred the Board to the HR report provided.
03-09/2019
Trustee Blakemore moved approval, seconded by Trustee Varley. Seeing no discussion, the Human
Resources Report dated September 24, 2019, was approved as presented by unanimous vote of the
Board members present. (See pages 282-291)

273   P a g e

 4
Finance Committee Report:
Director Morgan stated in general property taxes for the month of August we received our last settlement
in the form of advances for the second half. With that settlement we have exceeded our estimate for the
year by $776,746.00. We will see a small amount of money coming in for the remainder of the year. He
projected a $1 million carry over we would have going into 2020, part of that would be made up from the
increase in PLF and the balance will be made up of what we received in the additional general property
tax revenue. Those two numbers combined would be our carry over into 2020 to start the year.
Director Morgan stated in Public Library Fund (PLF) our August distribution was larger than what we
received last year. This is due to increased collections as well as the slight increase in the percentage
that libraries received as part of the new biennium budget from the state that began in July. The state
has adjusted our number for PLF, and that estimate is over $377,000.00. We are certain we will receive
that amount of money.
Director Morgan stated interest rates are higher than anticipated and the larger increase has brought in
additional revenue. Based on some of our recent maturities we are beginning to see some of those
increases leveling off.
Director Morgan stated patron fines and fees are exceeding our estimates due to passport fees and
photos. Sale of resale supplies are also slightly exceeding our estimates.
Director Morgan stated salaries and budgets are in line for the month of August. We monitor this account
very closely.
All other accounts are where we would expect them to be for the month and the year.
Director Morgan stated in the capital project fund we are still waiting on the final budget project numbers
for CCPL Bay Village and Richmond Heights Branches.
(See under FINANCE)
Investments - July
Director Morgan stated there was investment activity for the month of July.
04-09/2019
Trustee Blakemore moved approval, seconded by Trustee Varley. Seeing no additional discussion, the
Investment Report Fiscal 2019 – July listing all Money Market Funds, Star Ohio Accounts, U.S. Treasury
Investments, Certificates of Deposit and Agency Securities was approved as presented by roll-call vote.
(See Under FINANCE)
Roll-Call:

Yea: Edward H. Blakemore; Allyn Davies; Patricia A. Shlonsky; Maria L.
Spangler; Robert W. Varley;
– 5.
Nea: – 0.

Investments – August
Director Morgan stated there was no investment activity for the month of August.
Transfers
Director Morgan stated there was no transfers or advances for the month of August.
(See Under FINANCE)

274   P a g e

 5
05-09/2019
Trustee Spangler moved approval, seconded by Trustee Blakemore. Seeing no additional discussion,
the Investment Report Fiscal 2019 – August listing all Money Market Funds, Star Ohio Accounts, U.S.
Treasury Investments, Certificates of Deposit and Agency Securities was approved as presented by rollcall vote. (See Under FINANCE)
Roll-Call:

Yea: Edward H. Blakemore; Allyn Davies; Patricia A. Shlonsky; Maria L.
Spangler; Robert W. Varley;
– 5.
Nea: – 0.

Purchase Approval List
Director Morgan stated the Purchase Approval List (PAL) was reviewed in depth at the Finance
Committee Meeting. Director Morgan gave highlights of the PAL.
Director Morgan stated item #3 is to replace printers on each of the branch staff desk systemwide. Item
#4 and item #5 are for the new Graphics print shop equipment.
Executive Director Strobel commented items # 4 and 5 represent a 32% decrease over the cost of the
previous system. She thanked Assistant Marketing & Communications Director Rua and his team for
discovering that cost savings.
06-09/2019
Trustee Varley moved approval of Purchase Approval List, seconded by Trustee Blakemore. Seeing no
additional discussion, the Purchase Approval List dated September 24, 2019, was approved as presented
by unanimous vote of the Board members present. (See page 292)
Gift Report
Director Morgan stated the report includes July and August gifts from the Friends groups for branch
programming, as well as gifts from The Cleveland Foundation for $25,000.00 first payment of two for the
Public Service Fellow and $45,972.00 from The Reinberger Foundation for the ASPIRE program for the
education and training for the adults that were discussed in detail at the Finance Committee Meeting.
07-09/2019
Trustee Varley moved approval, seconded by Trustee Blakemore. The gift report was approved by
unanimous vote of the Board members present. (See page 293)


Resolution Authorizing the Library to Enter into an Agreement with Smith & OBY for the
Maple Heights HVAC Improvements project
Facilities Director Mori stated we asked permission from the Board to advertise for the HVAC
improvements for the Maple Heights Branch. The lowest bidder was Smith & Oby, and having the lowest
and best responsive bid, we are recommending that we enter into a contract with Smith & Oby to perform
this work.
08-09/2019
Trustee Spangler moved approval, seconded by Trustee Davies. Seeing no additional discussion, the
Resolution Authorizing the Library to Enter into an Agreement with Smith & OBY for the Maple Heights
HVAC Improvements Project was approved by unanimous vote of the Board members present. (See
pages294-295)

275   P a g e

 6
 Resolution to Approve Change Order Number One for Northeastern Refrigeration
Facilities Director Mori stated this is a resolution to approve change order number one for Northeastern
Refrigeration. This is a deduct change order for $10,271.29.
09-09/2019
Trustee Blakemore moved approval, seconded by Trustee Varley. Seeing no additional discussion, the
Resolution to Approve Change Order Number One for Northeastern Refrigeration was approved by
unanimous vote of the Board members present. (See pages 296-297)
 Resolution to Provide Compensation for Seasonal Staff
Director Jankowski stated this resolution is to provide compensation for seasonal staff by giving them
additional compensation to retain and utilize their experience. She stated it is most efficient and effective
to have staff return each year to reduce the time and cost of recruitment and training of new hires
Director Morgan stated at the Finance meeting the Committee requested an estimate of what this might
cost. Director Morgan stated to retain 70% of the seasonal staff the estimate would be around
$13,000.00.
10-09/2019
Trustee Varley moved approval, seconded by Trustee Spangler. Seeing no additional discussion, the
Resolution to Provide Compensation for Seasonal Staff was approved by unanimous vote of the Board
members present. (See page 298)
 Resolution Calling for Macmillan Publishing to Reverse Library eBook Embargo
Executive Director Strobel stated this resolution is asking the Board to request that Macmillan Publishing
reverse its library eBook embargo that is set to go into place on November 1, 2019. Macmillan one of the
large publishing houses intends to sell public libraries of any size just one copy of an eBook from one of
their authors and then wait eight weeks before it will sell any additional copies. This limits access to our
customers and creates an equity between those who can go out and buy the eBook which Macmillan
hopes and those who don’t have that ability creating a divide between those who can and cannot access
information. The library community nationally is upset by this trend and we believe if Macmillan is
successful other publishers will quickly follow suit. This will frustrate our customers and complicate our
workflow and our processes, which neither are acceptable to us. Boards around the country including all
the Metropolitan Library Boards in the State of Ohio are passing a resolution like this to voice their
disappointment in hopes that it will be reversed before being implemented on November 1.
11-09/2019
Trustee Varley moved approval, seconded by Trustee Davies. Seeing no additional discussion, the
Resolution Calling for Macmillan Publishing to Reverse Library eBook Embargo was approved by
unanimous vote of the Board members present. (See page 299)
Trustee Varley asked in addition to the Board passing this resolution we have 808,761 cardholders
should they know about this?
Executive Director Strobel stated with passing of the resolution we will send communication out tomorrow
to our cardholder base making them aware of this and asking them to sign a petition that American
Library Association (ALA) have created that currently have over 30,000 signatures. There is more
information on this movement at ebooksforall.org. She thanked Director Rich for her voice and
contribution for libraries nationally in communications and her advocacy efforts in this.

276   P a g e

 7
Executive Session
President Shlonsky asked for a motion to recess the meeting for an Executive Session for the purpose of
discussing certain personnel matters pertaining to the employment of a public official or employee
pursuant to Ohio Revised Code section 121.22 (G)(1). President Shlonsky also stated Board action would
be taken after the Executive Session.
12-09/2019
Upon motion of Trustee Varley, seconded by Trustee Blakemore, President Shlonsky’s request to recess
for an Executive Session was approved by roll-call vote at 5:53 p.m.
Roll-Call:

Yea: Edward H. Blakemore; Allyn Davies; Patricia A. Shlonsky; Maria L.
Spangler; Robert W. Varley; – 5.
Nea: – 0.

Executive Session
President Shlonsky asked for a motion to reconvene the Board meeting following the Executive Session.
13-09/2019
Upon motion of Trustee Blakemore, seconded by Trustee Spangler, the Board meeting reconvened by
roll-call vote at 6:09 p.m.
Roll-Call:

Yea: Edward H. Blakemore; Allyn Davies; Patricia A. Shlonsky; Maria L.
Spangler; Robert W. Varley; – 5.
Nea: – 0.

 Resolution to Offer Employment Contract to Executive Director
Board President Shlonsky read the resolution to offer employment contract to Executive Director into the
record. She stated before the Board approves an adjustment was made to reflect the retention of her
performance beginning August 3, 2019 through December 31, 2022.
14-09/2019
Trustee Varley moved approval, seconded by Trustee Blakemore. Seeing no additional discussion, the
Resolution to Offer Employment Contract to Executive Director to reflect the retention of her performance
adjusted beginning August 3, 2019 through December 31, 2022 was approved by unanimous vote of the
Board members present. (See pages xxx-xxx)
Motion to Adjourn
Seeing no other business under consideration for vote, President Shlonsky asked for a motion to adjourn
the meeting.
15-09/2019
Upon motion of Trustee Varley, seconded by Trustee Blakemore the September 24, 2019 meeting of the
Cuyahoga County Public Library adjourned at 6:11 p.m.
Approved 21 October 2019
X________________________
Patricia A. Shlonsky
President
X_______________________
Dean E. DePiero
Secretary

277   P a g e

 8

CUYAHOGA COUNTY PUBLIC LIBRARY
SPECIAL BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING
WORK SESSION ON FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
MINUTES
07 October 2019
The October 7, 2019 Special Meeting of the Cuyahoga County Public Library Board of Trustees
was held at the Cuyahoga County Public Library Administration Building Auditorium, 2111 Snow
Road, Parma, Ohio. With a quorum of seven (7) Board members present, President Shlonsky
called the meeting to order at 4:03 p.m.
Roll-Call:

Present: Edward H. Blakemore; Allyn Davies; Dean E. DePiero; William
J. Leonard; Patricia A. Shlonsky; Robert W. Varley – 6.
Absent: - 0.

Also present: Executive Director Tracy Strobel; Operations Director and Fiscal Officer Scott
Morgan; Communications & External Relations Director Hallie Rich; Acting Human Resources
Director Larry Miller; Assistant Marketing & Communications Director Rob Rua; Development
Director Bridget Hawes, Literacy and Learning Division Director Pamela Jankowski; Branch
Services Director- East Enda Bracken; Branch Services Director- West Caroline Vicchiarelli;
Facilities Director Jeff Mori; IT Director Jim Haprian; Technical Services Director Daniel Barden;
Union Representatives, and other interested observers.
Executive Director Strobel thanked the Board for attending this Special Board of Trustees
meeting. Director Morgan will give a recap of what we discussed at the September 24 Board of
Trustees meeting regarding the shortfalls in our budget projecting forward from 2020-2028 and
our analysis we did on how we can reduce expenditures to accommodate that shortfall. Beyond
reducing expenditures, we have the option of going to the ballot. Galen Schuerlein,
Director, Roetzel Consulting Solutions, will give a general presentation about recent polling. We
will talk results, have a discussion and decide if we want to take the next step toward a ballot
issue. If we choose to do that, the resolution that is before us today, doesn’t mean we must go
forward. It means we are requesting certification from the County Fiscal Agent to give us the
numbers in terms of what we would expect to garner from a ballot issue. This is not a final
decision today, but it would be taking that next step. Executive Director Strobel asked Director
Morgan to share some of our financial concerns.
Trusted Maria Spangler arrived at the Board of Trustees meeting at 4:06p.m.
Financial Projections Discussion
Director Morgan discussed our ten-year general fund financial projections expenditure
reduction. He stated he will give a recap of this report since we did go through this at the last
board meeting. This is a ten-year projection. 2019 is updated as to where we are right now.
Preliminary numbers for 2020 have been updated. In receipts we are projecting a $1 million
carry over in 2020 to begin our budget for that year. We have received additional revenue on
the 2.5mill levy that we currently have and additional money over what we budgeted in the
Public Library Fund (PLF) which makes for the $1 million carry over. The eight remaining years
we are projecting a deficit and there will be no carry over revenue in those remaining years.

300   P a g e

 9

Director Morgan stated the collection from the 2.5mill levy and the way House Bill 920 works
there would be a decrease in that amount of money we collect each year. We have reflected
the difference we have been seeing in the levy in each of those years. The PLF was a little
more difficult to project further then the two years because a lot of has to do with what the State
Legislature decides to do with the biennium. This year we received a higher percentage than
we have in the past and we don’t know if it will carry into future years or not because it’s also
based upon the collections of the State. We have kept this very conservative because of the
unknown. The balance of receipts we are keeping flat because those don’t change a lot with the
budget we currently have.
Director Morgan stated in expenditures he looked at the salary history of where we are, we don’t
see a huge fluctuation in those in ten years some years we spent more or less, and we
projected that out by 1% increase for each year. The salaries budget inflated by 5% projected
over ten years that number grows to be huge based upon 100% full employment in each of
those years and with positions open there never is 100% employment for the full year. We
projected that out at 1% increase for each of those ten years.
Director Morgan stated the benefits number and healthcare has been growing so large over the
past few years and based upon our premium experience historically in the past has been 5% on
an average. He projected that number out by 5% and all other benefits projected out by 1.5%.
Director Morgan stated for supplies purchased and contracted services, he looked at the
spending pattern and instead of using a percentage, he bumped those using a straight dollar
amount for every three or four years.
Director Morgan stated we added library programming to this budget. A lot of the special
revenue funding we have right now is for library programming. The special revenue monies we
received for grant funding is for start-up of those programs. The longer we run those programs
the more difficult it is to continue to receive grant money as those programs start to age.
Executive Director Strobel commented the Homework Centers we have been doing for over a
decade began with funding from The Cleveland Foundation and they have stepped down their
funding over time. This is now a core critical service we provide that should become part of our
operating dollars.
Director Morgan stated while doing these projections we added dollars in for some of those
programs that are currently being paid for by special revenue funds, and in the future will need
to be paid by some of our general operating dollars.
Director Morgan stated we looked at library materials and because of what is happening in the
publishing industry, we did feel the need to increase that budget going forward if we are to keep
up with the demand particularly in the area of electronic materials.
Director Morgan stated on the capital side we looked at the difference on what we are spending
on facilities compared to what we are spending on ITD. Those are based on actual numbers
that we created from individual programs.
Director Morgan stated miscellaneous is a category that stays consistent.
Director Morgan stated contingency is a number we put in each year of the budget to transfer
dollars into other categories should we have some short falls.

301   P a g e

 10

Director Morgan stated the advanced line is not used unless necessary. Advances are
temporary. Those are monies that are advanced to a fund that must be repaid within a year.
Director Morgan stated transfers to other funds are the dollars we need to transfer to the debt
service fund to pay off the bonds each year.
Trustee Blakemore inquired about the healthcare cost increase. Is this increase factored into
the cost or is this the typical increase?
Director Morgan stated at an average of where were in the past ten years it was about 5%, and
he built that into the cost.
Trustee Leonard asked is the 5% increase in healthcare for employee per month capita or is it
5% increase for the library total cost?
Director Morgan stated it was a 5% increase on the total library expense. There is a portion of
the premium that employees pay.
Trustee Varley mentioned in ITD 2019 we spent $847,500.00 and in 2020 it goes up to
$2,060,000.00. What is the difference between 2019 and 2020 and beyond?
Director Haprian stated there are several projects we slated for 2020.
Executive Director Strobel stated the difference in receipts over expenditures moving from 2020
forward we are in the red and essentially have two options; reduce expenditures or we seek
additional revenue. Director Morgan will discuss the categories where we looked at reducing
expenditures.
Director Morgan stated we looked at five basic categories listed by priority; 1) delayed capital
spending Facilities and ITD; 2) reduction in library materials each year; 3) 10% or less
reduction in all other expense line items; 4) Termination of Sunday hours that we currently have
and; 5) a reduction in library hours.
Director Morgan stated the delayed capital spending was not delayed it was actually deleted.
We looked at all the capital projects listed in 2020 and deleted the roof and HVAC system
capital project for the Beachwood Branch. The HVAC system and the roof are old. We will
continue to patch the roof and repair the HVAC system, but there will come a time when they
both will need to be replaced. In 2020 we deleted that cost, but in the ten-year projection it will
need to be replaced and this expense will have to hit one of the other categories. Another
concern is that we just went through a major capital program where we spent a lot of money on
buildings. This is taking all the money to maintain the infrastructure and to keep that
infrastructure in good repair to the standards that we expect in our buildings today. It will
become difficult to not spend those dollars each year to keep those buildings in good repair.
Director Morgan stated the second category would be reduction in library materials. We would
take $1 million out of library materials for each of those years. This will hurt because of the way
the publishing industry is going and it will become more difficult to fulfill those holes because of
the electronic materials. We need to affect every category in the budget if we are going to make
reductions.

302   P a g e

 11

Director Morgan stated the third category would be reduction for 10% or less reduction in all
other library expenses. This category was labeled or less because in 2020 we didn’t have to
take 10% from the other lines to make the budget. The reduction of all other expense items
included; supplies contracted services, miscellaneous/other and contingencies. Those are the
four categories we used to take the straight percentage from, which will hit two of our biggest
contracted services; cleaning and landscaping. This mean our cleaning and landscaping
standards will have to change.
Director Morgan stated the fourth category is termination of Sunday hours. The library would no
longer be open on Sunday it cost us $780,000.00 a year to open on Sunday.
Executive Director Strobel commented Sunday is only four hours but can be some of our
busiest hours. From a staffing perspective reducing Sunday hours would not require layoffs
because it’s all overtime.
Director Morgan stated in the fifth category reduction in library hours, we looked at what it cost
us for one hour of personnel dollars to run the library just for public service is $5,817.00. We
looked at the shortfall in 2022, in order to make up our deficit we need to hit that category for
$1,891,000.00. We took that number divided by $5,817.00 and we would have to decrease the
number of hours we are open by 325. If we closed one branch one hour early each day for one
year that would be 324 hours. If we closed all 27 branches one hour early each day for one
year would be 8,748 hours. When we get to 2028 the number of hours is still 1,803. The dollar
number is larger, but the number of hours is 1,803. The concern is we have cut the capital
number so much the only category we have to go to is this category if we must do any more
expensive capital projects.
Executive Director Strobel mentioned in this category a reduction in library hours equates to a
reduction in personnel hours. This point is where we would need to reduce staffing.
Director Morgan stated we looked at additional receipts of what a 0.50mill would bring and what
1mill would bring. If we passed an issue in 2020, we wouldn’t realize those receipts until the
beginning 2021. According to the County 0.50mill would bring in $9,428,617.00. The projected
shortfall in 2021 $5,267,315.00 taking the difference we would have enough to cover the
balance left of $4.1 million. In each of those years 0.50mill can cover each deficit until 2025. The
proceeds from a 0.50mill would not cover the deficit in 2025 carrying that money forward would
cover the deficit through 2027. In 2028 we would go back into the red $3.1 million. If we carry
the $3.7 million projected forward it will bump it back to 2025 and we would have to go back to
the ballot for 0.50mill or raise money for 2027.
Director Morgan stated projecting 1mill that would raise $18,857,237.00 each of those years
would cover more than the deficit and after the ten years you would have a balance of
$70,000,000.00.
Trustee Blakemore asked when we went to the ballot ten years ago what millage did, we use?
Executive Director Strobel stated we replaced a 2mill levy and then we added a 0.50mill and
made it all continuing.
Executive Director Strobel stated those are essentially the two items we must look at cost
reduction or putting an issue on the ballot.

303   P a g e

 12

Executive Director Strobel distributed a document to the Trustees a basic look at library issues
both bond and operating issues. It gives some of the basic rules about the process and what
the role of the Trustee is, and what the staff can and cannot do.
Executive Director Strobel commented if we were to put an issue on the ballot what would the
community sentiment be? How likely would they be to support it? How likely are we to be
successful? We have done some polling in the past and Ms. Schuerlein, was involved in that
and will share some generalities about that polling and our likely hood of success should that be
the choice.
Ms. Schuerlein stated she is here as a volunteer today. She talked about the polling they did on
behalf of the Political Action Committee (PAC). They tested some of the harder communities
and there is a path for a victory if we run a strong campaign. The only variable we see in the
statistical analysis that move people are rather they are a Democrat or a Republican.
Democrats will be more likely to support the issue than not. She suggests there is a path if we
run a good campaign and we pick an election with high dominance of Democrats coming out
opposed to Republican counterparts. There were some good messages from the people they
want evening and weekend hours they want essential services; Homework Centers and safe
place in neighborhoods. We have a good story if the numbers are there and is predicated on
running a strong campaign paid for by a PAC.
Trustee Shlonsky asked what do you mean by a strong campaign?
Ms. Schuerlein stated the Campaign Committee must have a conversation to have the
resources to get the message out in what could be a crowded field. You will have human
services and primary candidates and we don’t know what that means in the Presidential
because we don’t know how many people will stay in. If a lot of them does stay in it will be very
noisy in November.
Trustee Spangler asked how does Greater Cleveland Partnership discussion around being
more stringent if they are willing to come out and support us or not?
Ms. Schuerlein stated these are campaign conversations we should have when the campaign
gets together and not in a public forum. In general, the more variables you have that affect your
ability to have a clear message and have people to help share the message and not actively
oppose you the better you are. This is minimizing risks and maximizing your ability to reach a
goal. The more variables the harder it becomes.
Trustee DePiero asked what are some of the community’s we have done well in the past and
those we have not done well in the past?
Ms. Schuerlein stated in 2008 we won in every community except Strongsville where we got to
49.5. We spent a little over $500,000.00
Trustee DePiero asked what are some of the communities where we were able to run up the
score and get good numbers?
Ms. Schuerlein stated some were high mainly on the east side.

304   P a g e

 13

Executive Director Strobel remembered we were very strong in Solon, Beachwood and
Warrensville. We had great support from the leadership in those communities, and it paid off
significantly. In recent polling it indicated quite strong support in Strongsville than in Parma
which is also strong and in our favor.
Ms. Schuerlein stated Strongsville passed an issue to build a building more recently than others.
A decade later, the last time we went on the ballot we barely had social media. Demographics
shifts from Democrats & Republicans to Independent is significant in Cuyahoga County. It’s
hard to compare the two elections, but we need to keep in mind that we do have a more difficult
electorate then the rest of Cuyahoga County because we don’t have Cleveland, Shaker Heights
and Cleveland Heights traditionally more tax friendly communities and we have to make sure
that we are ready in the other communities that we have to prove to. This is a tough electorate.
Trustee Blakemore asked if we should move forward what would be a draft timeline?
Ms. Schuerlein stated we won’t spend campaign funds until early January and we need to be
out educating the community in a very significant way now about what is at stake. We can use
library dollars to educate. There is a lot of good story’s and we have our own polling that says
we have story’s and messaging that resonates with people. In terms of the campaign sooner is
better than later. Her concern is we are headed into the holidays and suggests with the filing
deadline of December 18 we need to move quickly.
Executive Director Strobel commented from a technical perspective in terms of what the Boards
responsibilities are we have laid out a timeline moving backward from the filing deadline of
December 18. There are certain steps the Board takes moving backward from the 8, we must
pass two resolutions; 1) resolution requesting the County Fiscal Officer to certify the total
current tax valuation of the Library District which is before you. This is not a binding commitment
to go to the levy. This is the first step. There is another resolution, and these must be passed at
two separate meetings. If we do this resolution and get the results back from the County Fiscal
Officer we would get the information to the Board and at that point the Board would make a
decision to pass a resolution and the wording of that is; Resolution determining to proceed with
submitting to the Electors of the Library District. This is the commitment resolution. This
resolution goes to County Council and County Council does not have the ability to keep it off the
ballot, but they still must go through the process of reading it three times at their meetings.
Those three meetings would be October 22, November 12 and November 26 with those we
would meet the deadline of the December 18 filing, which is why we wanted to start this
conversation at this Special Board meeting we don’t have much time. The County Council does
have the option of not having to do all three meetings that might be a possibility we would have
to investigate upon signing this resolution.
Trustee Varley commented early voting is February 19 and election is March 17. He wanted
clarity on County Council not being able to deny us.
Executive Director Strobel commented County Council does not have the power to deny it, but
they must go through the process.
Trustee DePiero commented there are some legislative bodies that does not like to suspend the
rules.
Director Morgan commented the Ohio Revised Code requires them to adopt it because they are
a taxing authority. The Ohio Revised Code says they may not keep it from going to the ballot.

305   P a g e

 14

Trustee Varley commented there is a lot of input other than the numbers and he is not opposed
to the resolution before them which is to get the numbers certified, but there are some
discussions that have to go on between when we get the numbers certified and when we get a
decision to go on rather it is short term or long term. There are pieces to this campaign we have
not talked about.
Executive Director Strobel stated we are unable to talk about the campaign in this forum.
Trustee Blakemore asked if any of these numbers would change March versus November?
Ms. Schuerlein stated its annual. The numbers would change if you run in 2020 run instead of
2020.
Executive Director Strobel commented the concern about going in November that its’ a
Presidential and the polling indicated a much clearer path to victory when there are primarily
Democrats at the ballot which is March as opposed to November when there is an unpredictable
mix. We would have to significantly educate more voters in November than in March and
educating voters costs money, which is part of the logic.
Trustee DePiero asked Executive Director Strobel to review the County Council dates.
Executive Director Strobel stated October 22 would be the first County Council meeting which
we could introduce the two resolutions. They would read them three times with the hope of
passing them December 10 at their scheduled meeting, which would be in time to meet the filing
deadline of December 18.
Executive Director Strobel stated if we decide to go forward and in consultation with our experts,
we would need to make the October 22 deadline. We would need to reschedule our regular
scheduled Board meeting on October 22, to October 21 a day prior. We would also need a
super majority at this Board meeting to pass the resolution.
Trustee Varley asked how long would it take County Council to certify?
Director Morgan stated he doesn’t know but would ask them to expedite it quickly.
Trustee Varley asked do we have to decide today or send it two resolutions?
Executive Director Strobel stated we can send in two resolutions.
Trustee Varley looking at the deficit and 5% of what the total is for 2020, we keep Sunday
hours? There is no reduction in public access.
Executive Director Strobel stated this is the priority we are presenting which can be changed.
Trustee Varley asked what hardship are these reductions going to cause in 2020? We have
these new buildings and there is a capital plan for roof repairs, or the public computers don’t get
replaced for the year. What is the reduction in library materials?
Trustee Shlonsky asked what happens if the roof caves in at the Beachwood Branch?

306   P a g e

 15

Director Moran stated the roof replacement for the Beachwood Branch is estimated at
$425,000.00 and the HVAC system at the Beachwood Branch is estimated $525,000.00.
Trustee Varley asked is this worth 5% with the compressed timeframe of the election. He is for
the resolution being presented today and to getting it certified at 0.50mill or 1.0mill.
Trustee DePiero asked how much per $100,000.00 would it cost homeowners?
Director Rich commented at 1.0mill it would cost property owners $2.58 per month additional
taxes per $100,000.00 at property value and for 0.50mill would cost property owners $1.28 per
month additional taxes per $100,000.00 at property value.
Trustee Shlonsky thanked Ms. Schuerlein for her presentation.
Executive Director Strobel asked Ms. Schuerlein is there anything holding us back from doing
three resolutions with different millages?
Ms. Schuerlein stated the more resolutions we do it would take more time.
Trustee Varley asked is there a statutory environment for them to reply to us?
Director Morgan stated he doesn’t know, but he does have a good relationship with Bryan Dunn
at Cuyahoga County and will ask him to move on it quickly.
Trustee DePiero commented for the long term we need 1mill.
Trustee Blakemore commented he is fine if other Board members want variations of millages.
Executive Director Strobel stated we would do three resolutions and need three votes.
Trustee Shlonsky would like to see three variations then the 1mill asking taxpayers to pay an
excess.
Trustee Leonard commented he would like to see just one number either 0.70mill or 0.80mill.
Executive Director Strobel asked Ms. Schuerlein how three numbers would appear on the poll.
Would it hurt us from a messaging point?
Ms. Schuerlein stated it doesn’t hurt us if our messaging is clear and gathering information is
appropriate. It will start a conversation.
President Shlonsky asked for a motion to approve three resolutions one at 0.50mill, 0.70mill and
1.0mill.
Seeing no additional discussion for three Resolutions at 0.50mill, 0.70mill and 1.0mill was
approved by unanimous vote of the Board members present.
Roll-Call:

Yea: Edward H. Blakemore; Allyn Davies; Dean E. DePiero;
William J. Leonard; Patricia A. Shlonsky; Maria L. Spangler;
Robert W. Varley; – 7.
Nea: – 0.

307   P a g e

 16

Resolution Requesting the Cuyahoga County Fiscal Officer to Certify the Total Current
Tax Valuation of the Library District of the Cuyahoga County Public Library, Cuyahoga
County, Ohio and the Amount to be Generated During the First Year of Collection of an
Additional Tax of 0.50 Mill for Purpose of Current Expenses of the Cuyahoga County
Public Library for a Continuing Period of Time.
Trustee Shlonsky asked for a motion to approve Resolution for 0.50mill.
SP10/2019-1
Trustee Blakemore moved approval, seconded by Trustee Varley. Seeing no additional
discussion, the Resolution Requesting the Cuyahoga County Fiscal Officer to Certify the Total
Current Tax Valuation of the Library District of the Cuyahoga County Public Library, Cuyahoga
County, Ohio and the Amount to be Generated During the First Year of Collection of an
Additional Tax of 0.50 Mill for Purpose of Current Expenses of the Cuyahoga County Public
Library for a Continuing Period of Time was approved by unanimous vote of the Board members
present (See pages 310-312)
Roll-Call:

Yea: Edward H. Blakemore; Allyn Davies; Dean E. DePiero;
William J. Leonard; Patricia A. Shlonsky; Maria L. Spangler;
Robert W. Varley; – 7.
Nea: – 0.

Resolution Requesting the Cuyahoga County Fiscal Officer to Certify the Total Current
Tax Valuation of the Library District of the Cuyahoga County Public Library, Cuyahoga
County, Ohio and the Amount to be Generated During the First Year of Collection of an
Additional Tax of 0.70 Mill for Purpose of Current Expenses of the Cuyahoga County
Public Library for a Continuing Period of Time.
Trustee Shlonsky asked for a motion to approve Resolution for 0.70mill.
SP10/2019-2
Trustee DePiero moved approval, seconded by Trustee Varley. Seeing no additional
discussion, the Resolution Requesting the Cuyahoga County Fiscal Officer to Certify the Total
Current Tax Valuation of the Library District of the Cuyahoga County Public Library, Cuyahoga
County, Ohio and the Amount to be Generated During the First Year of Collection of an
Additional Tax of 0.70 Mill for Purpose of Current Expenses of the Cuyahoga County Public
Library for a Continuing Period of Time was approved by unanimous vote of the Board members
present (See pages 313-315)
Roll-Call:

Yea: Edward H. Blakemore; Allyn Davies; Dean E. DePiero;
William J. Leonard; Patricia A. Shlonsky; Maria L. Spangler;
Robert W. Varley; – 7.
Nea: – 0.

308   P a g e

 17

Resolution Requesting the Cuyahoga County Fiscal Officer to Certify the Total Current
Tax Valuation of the Library District of the Cuyahoga County Public Library, Cuyahoga
County, Ohio and the Amount to be Generated During the First Year of Collection of an
Additional Tax of 1.0 Mill for Purpose of Current Expenses of the Cuyahoga County
Public Library for a Continuing Period of Time.
Trustee Shlonsky asked for a motion to approve Resolution for 1.0mill.
SP10/2019-3
Trustee Blakemore moved approval, seconded by Trustee Varley. Seeing no additional
discussion, the Resolution Requesting the Cuyahoga County Fiscal Officer to Certify the Total
Current Tax Valuation of the Library District of the Cuyahoga County Public Library, Cuyahoga
County, Ohio and the Amount to be Generated During the First Year of Collection of an
Additional Tax of 1.0 Mill for Purpose of Current Expenses of the Cuyahoga County Public
Library for a Continuing Period of Time was approved by unanimous vote of the Board members
present (See pages 316-318)
Roll-Call:

Yea: Edward H. Blakemore; Allyn Davies; Dean E. DePiero;
William J. Leonard; Patricia A. Shlonsky; Maria L. Spangler;
Robert W. Varley; – 7.
Nea: – 0.

Motion to Adjourn
Seeing no other business under consideration for vote, President Shlonsky asked for a motion
to adjourn the meeting.
SP10/2019/2
Upon motion of Trustee Blakemore seconded by Trustee Spangler, the October 7, 2019 Special
Meeting of the Cuyahoga County Public Library adjourned at 5:17 pm.
Approved 21 October 2019

X________________________
Patricia A. Shlonsky
President
X_______________________
Dean E. DePiero
Secretary

309   P a g e

 18

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR’S MESSAGE
DEFENDING EBOOK ACCESS
In July, Macmillan Publishers announced its unfortunate decision to
impose a two-month embargo on sales of new eBook titles to libraries
across all of its imprints. The embargo is set to begin on November
1, 2019. The announcement followed a controversial year-long test
embargo of eBook titles published under Macmillan’s Tor imprint. Under
Macmillan’s new terms, libraries will be able to purchase only a single
one-user/one-eBook perpetual license upon publication. Libraries may
then purchase additional metered licenses eight weeks later. By limiting
libraries to a single copy of each new title, Macmillan will create much
longer wait times for readers to enjoy eBooks by their favorite authors.
Macmillan CEO John Sargent explained the decision in a memo to the
publisher’s authors, illustrators and agents. In the memo, Sargent cites
the growth of library eBook lending and calls the embargo a “response
to our growing fears that library lending was cannibalizing sales.”
The Macmillan decision is predicated on a faulty premise that eBook
lending hurts their bottom line. In fact, there is plenty of evidence to
the contrary, including the ongoing work of the Panorama Project to
quantify the sales impact of libraries on book discovery, author brand
development and sales. From physical and digital shelf space to reading
recommendations, book club selections, email marketing and beyond,
public libraries increase the visibility of established, popular writers and
expose readers to debut and emerging authors who need to build a
loyal fanbase. Libraries deliver value that can be quantified above and
beyond the value we create through collection development and event
generated book sales.
Simply put, publishers need readers to survive – and libraries build
readers. Unfortunately, Macmillan’s shortsighted decision ignores the
incredible value that public libraries provide within the publishing
ecosystem and limits public access to books, information and ideas.
Their embargo hurts readers and libraries on many levels.
Cuyahoga County Public Library (CCPL) has joined the American
Library Association (ALA) and the chorus of libraries across the
country who have condemned the Macmillan embargo. Last month,
Cuyahoga County Public Library’s Board of Trustees passed a resolution
denouncing Macmillan’s new eBook policy. We are fighting back for
eBook access and we’re asking our constituents to do the same. We
hope you will consider joining with public library customers across
the United States to make your voice heard by signing the ALA eBook
access petition at eBooksForAll.org or by texting EBOOKS to 40649.
It’s time to demand that Macmillan treat public libraries as collaborators
rather than competitors.

Sincerely,

Tracy Strobel
Executive Director

 19

SYSTEM HIGHLIGHTS
Facebook Fans: 29,517
Twitter Followers: 10,266
Instagram Followers: 3,743
I’ve been super into reading in 2019 (135 & counting) & many of those books have been digital from
@CuyahogaLib & @Cleveland_PL! @MacmillanUSA wants to limit readers’ access to new eBooks thru
libraries. Sign the petition to protect our access: http://eBooksForAll.org #eBooksForAll
@kbrennan14, September 28, 2019

The @maltzcenter welcomed renowned journalists @frankrichny and @JaneMayerNYer tonight for the
first William N. Skirball Writers Center Stage event, presented by @CuyahogaLib and #CWRU.
@cwru, September 25, 2019

Board of Trustees of Cuyahoga County (Ohio) Pub. Lib. just adopted resolution denouncing Macmillan’s
new eBook policy & urges everyone to sign the petition at http://eBooksForAll.org. @CuyahogaLib
@MacmillanUSA #eBooksForAll
@AlanSInouye, September 25, 2019

What an informative lunch thanks to Tracy Strobel, Executive Director of @CuyahogaLib! She shared some
of the GREAT resources available through the Library, such as #tutoring & #technology like 3D printing!
@SolonChamberOH, September 24, 2019

Technical Services Division staff spent a portion of September visiting branches to demonstrate collectionHQ
– a collection performance improvement solution developed by Baker & Taylor. TSD staff demonstrated how
collectionHQ can be used to more efficiently weed the collection, clean up catalog records and allocate shelf
space.
CHQ demos were a big part of branch visits this month to show branches how it can help with weeding, catalog
cleanup and allocating shelf space. For nonfiction, the popular subject summaries are very helpful in finding
what subjects are most popular at a branch and therefore deserve more money and shelf space. This report also
drills down to title level to allow for more targeted weeding/buying.
The Operations Division completed 202 work orders in September.
It was “A Night with Edwin’s “at the Maple Heights Branch on September 18. Derrick Speights, Community
Engagement and Reentry Coordinator at Edwin’s Leadership and Restaurant Institute, spoke about the Institute
and the opportunities it provides to formerly incarcerated adults. Twelve attendees viewed the documentary
Knife Skills, an Oscar-nominated documentary about Edwin Chrostowski’s work and mission.

 20
Twenty-eight people took the oath of citizenship at a naturalization ceremony held at the Solon Branch on
September 20. The ceremony – held as part of Global Cleveland’s Welcoming Week – was attended by more
than 130 people, many of which were family members and friends of the new Americans who took the oath. The
event was a festive affair. Refreshments were provided courtesy of the Friends of the Solon Library and guests
had the opportunity to have their photos taken with iconic American and patriotic backdrops using green screen
technology. After the ceremony, an enlightening conversation ensued between students from Hershey Montessori,
Aspire Greater Cleveland citizenship class participants and government officials regarding immigration and
becoming U.S. citizens.
Throughout September, Warrensville Heights Branch staff member Beate van der Schalie took advantage of the
warm weather by taking kids out to the garden to harvest vegetables. Over the course of the month, 13 kids
either harvested vegetables or helped cut and clean vegetables from the garden. One tween had a chance to
watch a Red Admiral butterfly using its curled proboscis to sip nectar and observe that one of its wings was
damaged (though it could still fly quite well).
Randi Packer, a 30-year child development expert with the Achievement Centers for Children, was a speaker
at a recent “Play, Learn and Grow Baby Club” session at the Garfield Heights Branch. The program combines
parenting tips, early literacy tips, storytime, socialization and playtime for parents with newborns to toddlers.
Randi said it was one of the best programs she had ever seen.
At the Orange Branch, a Cuyahoga County Board of Elections poll worker trainer commented on how convenient
and easy it was to book a meeting room and project his presentations. After using one of the public computers
before his class, he held up his library card and said, “Getting one of these was one of the best decisions I’ve
made in my life!”
More than 100 family members had the opportunity to spend quality time together during a unique “Family
Togetherness” program at the Brecksville Branch. In support of the Brecksville-Broadview Heights School District’s
“Take Back Togetherness” initiative, the Brecksville Branch staff taught families how to screen print a design on
shirts, canvas bags, aprons and pillowcases.
Fourteen teens learned how to make Nutella-filled crepes during the “Teen Maker Lab” program at the Beachwood
Branch. Using a “kitchen-in-a-box,” they made crepe batter from scratch, cut up strawberries and bananas as a
topping, and watched the crepes bubble up on the griddle. Once they were ready, participants filled the crepes
with Nutella and enjoyed a delicious afternoon snack.
A new U.S. citizen who had recently returned from three months overseas was having difficulties logging into
his email account at the North Olmsted Branch. He needed to print application documents to bring his family
(wife and three-year-old daughter) to this country. After a lot of conversation and troubleshooting, staff member
Lisa Woodruff helped him use an app called WhatsApp to access the necessary documents and print them using
CCPL’s mobile print service.
The Olmsted Falls Branch circulation staff have been busy preparing for school visits to the branch. Thanks to
Mylinh Duong, Rose Rini, Denise Busch and Michele Sterger, 184 first graders from Olmsted Falls are flashing
brand new library cards in celebration of Library Card Sign-Up Month. One little guy who got a new card was
overheard saying, “This is the best day ever!”

 21
Seventy-eight children and their caregivers enjoyed learning ASL signs during the Brooklyn Branch’s Baby Sign
Language for Parents. Caregivers were very enthusiastic to learn another way to communicate and stimulate
brain development with their little ones.
Thirty-seven students and family members attended a Homework Center open house held by Brook Park Branch
Homework Center Coordinator Tiffany Wilson. Tiffany set up several engaging educational stations – including
an art project table to promote “Art Experiences” – and provided a snack table for guests to enjoy.
Seventy-three participants attended “Toddler Fair” at the Strongsville Branch. Children and their caregivers
explored various sensory, STEM and motor-skill stations. Staff member Michelle Rapacki led the group in play
activities that repurposed safe and common household items in fun, new ways.
Innovation Specialist Matt Skvasik and teen librarian Gail Toth co-facilitated a “Raspberry Pi Basics” class at the
Berea Branch. Six participants learned how to use a breadboard to power LEDs and program them to flash at
varying intervals using the Python programming language.
More than 350 grandparents, family and friends participated in “Grandparents Festival 2019” at the Parma
Branch on September 7. Families contributed to a mural, created family trees, had their portraits taken, explored
instruments with the Cleveland Orchestra and took part in a variety of family-friendly activities.

 22
CUYAHOGA COUNTY PUBLIC LIBRARY
REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
OCTOBER 21, 2019

ACTIVITIES OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
September 25
 Participated on the Monthly 2020 Census conference call
 Attended CCPL Foundation Development Committee Meeting, with CCPL
Foundation Board Members: Helen Rankin Butler, Jennifer Hartford, Tony Panzica
and Eric Dicken, Maltz Performing Arts Center
 Attended Writers Center Stage (WCS) preshow dinner, with CCPL Trustee Patricia
Shlonsky, CCPL Foundation Committee Members; Tony Panzica, Helen Rankin
Butler, Eric Dicken, Jennifer Hartford and Library Donors, with Bill Kelly, CCPL Adult
Services Manager, and Bridget Hawes, CCPL Development Director
 Facilitated the William N. Skirball Writers Center Stage with authors Jane Mayer &
Frank Rich
September 26
 Participated on the AARP Overview: Census Teletown Hall conference call
 Participated on the second AARP Overview: Census Teletown Hall conference
call
September 26-27
 Attended and presented at the Ohio Library Council (OLC) Coming to Our Census:
What Libraries Can Do to Get Out the Count, in Cincinnati Ohio
September 27
 Participated on the “E-Books for All” conference call with, Susan Benton, President
and CEO, Urban Libraries Council (ULC)
September 30 - October 4
 Vacation
September 30
 Participated on the Metropolitan Directors Policy Update conference call
October 1
 Participated on conference call Drugs: Costs and Consequences with, Kenna Howat
Felix, Historian, U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA)
October 3
 Participated on Census Mini-Grants conference call with, Gavin Baker, Deputy Director,
Public Policy and Government Relations, American Library Association (ALA)
October 7
 Hosted and presented at the Mandel Jewish Community Center (JCC) Men’s Club,
CCPL Beachwood Branch
 Attended the Library Sub Committee of the Cuyahoga County Counts Committee
Meeting, Cleveland Public Library (CPL) Carnegie West Branch Library
 Facilitated Special Board of Trustees Meeting - Work Session
October 8
 Facilitated CCPL Foundation Board Meeting, The Union Club
 Attended CCPL Foundation Governance Committee Meeting, The Union Club
 Participated on ALA Census Task Force conference call with Gavin Baker, Deputy
Director, Public Policy and Government Relations, American Library Association
(ALA)

 23
Met with Cathy Kilbane, Director, Cleveland Clinic, with Hallie Rich, CCPL
Communications and External Relations Director, and Bridget Hawes, CCPL
Development Director
 Met with CCPL Maple Heights Branch staff
 Met with CCPL Garfield Heights Branch staff
 Phone call with Mayor Paul Koomar, City of Bay Village
October 9
 Phone call with Jason Dodson, Director Roetzel Consulting Solutions, with Hallie
Rich, CCPL Communications and External Relations Director
 Phone call with Melanie Farrell, Director, Facility Planning & Board Relations,
Cleveland Metropolitan Bar Association
 Met with Mayor Katherine Gallagher, City of Brooklyn, Justin McCaulley,
Consultant, McCaulley & Company, with Hallie Rich, CCPL Communications and
External Relations Director
 Met with Patricia DePompei, RN, MSN, President, UH Rainbow Babies & Children’s
Hospitals and MacDonald Women’s Hospital, and Ohio’s First Lady Fran DeWine, to
discuss The Ohio Governor’s Imagination Library
October 10
 Met with Jim Clark, Consultant, Security Risk Management Consultants, with CCPL
Leadership Team
 Met with Audrey Wynne, Census/PH FED, with CCPL Leadership Team to discuss
2020 Census at CCPL
 Met with CCPL Fairview Park Branch staff
 Met with CCPL Brook Park Branch staff
October 11
 Attended Live2Lead 2019 webcast, an annual leadership and personal growth event
developed by The John Maxwell Company, CCPL Parma-Snow Branch
 Met and toured with Caryn Candisky, NE Ohio District Director, Office of U.S.
Senator Rob Portman, CCPL Parma-Snow Branch
October 14
 Led interviews with three HR Director candidates.
 Met with Kristin Warzocha, President and CEO, Greater Cleveland Food Bank
October 15
 Conference call with Roger Riachi, Owner, RFC Contracting, Inc., and Hallie Rich,
CCPL Communications and External Relations Director, and Bridget Hawes, CCPL
Development Director
 Met with Rebekah Dorman, Director, Invest In Children Cuyahoga County, with
Pamela Jankowski, CCPL Director Literacy and Learning Division
with Patricia Lowrey, Digital Collection Advisor, OverDrive, and Cindy Orr
Met

Digital Collection Advisor, OverDrive
 Met with CCPL Beachwood Branch staff
 Met with CCPL Orange Branch staff
 Presented at Friends Group of CCPL Parma and Parma-Snow Branches
 Attended Samantha Power author event, CCPL Parma-Snow Branch
October 16
 Met with Dan Brady, President Councilman, and Cuyahoga County Executive Armond
Budish, and CCPL Trustee Dean DePiero
 Attended Council of Agency Executives Annual Meeting, with other Cuyahoga County
and Community Leaders
 Met with Dr. Renee Willis, Superintendent, Richmond Heights City School, with Scott
Morgan, CCPL Director Operations and Fiscal Officer
 Attended Writers Center Stage (WCS) Benefactor Reception


 24
Facilitated the William N. Skirball Writers Center Stage with authors Rachel Kushner &
Piper Kerman
October 17 - 18
 Vacation
October 21
 Led interview with HR Director candidate.
 Facilitated Finance Committee meeting
 Facilitated Board of Trustees meeting


Held one Leadership Team meeting and 6 individual check-in meetings with direct reports.

Executive Director

 25

VISITS
SEPTEMBER 2019
Year to Date
Customer Visits

5,011,519
4,002,984

-3%

3,808,690
-5%

-20%

2017

2018
Visits

2019

Year-over-Year Growth

Monthly

Customer Visits
600,000
500,000
400,000
300,000
200,000
100,000
April

May

June
Last Year

July

August

September

Current Year

Year-over-Year Growth
Customer Visits

5%
0%
-5%

April

May

June

July

-10%
-15%
-20%
-25%
-30%

Current Year
Previous Year

August

September

 26

CIRCULATION
SEPTEMBER 2019
Year to Date

Total Circulation
Physical

11,651,361

Renewals

Digital

11,832,125

10,953,299

64%

58%

56%

2017

2018

2019

Circulation
Monthly

1,500,000
1,200,000
900,000
600,000
300,000
-

April

May

June
Last Year

July

August

September

Current Year

Digital Circulation
Year to Date
14%
12%
2,040,854

2,036,084
1,792,845

0%
2017

2018
Digital Circulation

2019
Year-over-Year Growth

Circulation

Year-over-Year Growth
20%
15%
10%
5%
0%
-5%

April

May

June

July

-10%
-15%
-20%
Current Year

Previous Year

August

September

 27

COMPUTER USE
SEPTEMBER 2019

Public Access Computer Usage
Year to Date

47,621,009

43,357,642

39,736,446

7%

2017

9%

8%

2018

2019
-

Computer Usage (in Minutes)

Year-over-Year Growth

Computer Usage
Total Session Length (in Minutes)

Monthly
6,000,000
5,000,000
4,000,000
3,000,000
2,000,000
1,000,000
0
April

May

June
Last Year

July

August

September

Current Year

Public Computer versus WiFi Usage
20,000,000
16,000,000
12,000,000
8,000,000
4,000,000
0
April

May

June

Computer Usage (in Minutes)

July

August

Wi-Fi Usage (in Minutes)

September

 28

PROGRAMS
SEPTEMBER 2019
Programs Offered
Year to Date

12,654

11,391

2017

11,063

2018
Youth Programs

2019
Adult Programs

Total Program Attendance
Year to Date

273,701

255,568

258,974

2018

2019

2017

Youth Attendance

Adult Attendance

Program Attendance
Monthly

60,000
50,000
40,000
30,000
20,000
10,000
April

May

June
Last Year

July

August

September

Current Year

Average Program Attendance
24.6

23.3

24.6
20.1
16.5

13.9

2017

2018
Youth

2019
Adult

 29
HUMAN RESOURCES DIVISION REPORT LIST NO. 2019‐10

October 22, 2019

APPOINTMENTS
GRADE

SALARY

HOURS 
WEEK

COST 
CENTER

REPLACES

SALARY

REASON

Ball, Kimberly/Page

OEP

$8.55

15

BEA113

Danielle Toth

$8.55

Resignation

15

10.07.2019

Bohurjak, Therese/Page

OEP

$8.55

10

BRV113

Jaeyoun Yu

$8.80

Resignation

10

10.15.2019

Coppersmith, Laurie/Page

OEP

$8.55

10

CHF113

Elizabeth Eisenberg

$15.00

Resignation

15

10.21.2019

DeLuke, Jennifer/Branch Services Assistant II

U11

$20.06

40

GFH111

Erin Hallahan

$21.49

Promotion

40

09.30.2019

Fassinger, Vicque/Mentor/Tutor

OSC

$12.00

12

504113

 ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐

‐‐‐‐‐

‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐

‐‐‐‐‐

10.07.2019

Grimke, Laura/Page

OEP

$8.55

12

PAS113

 ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐

‐‐‐‐‐

‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐

‐‐‐‐‐

10.06.2019

Nichols, Amy/Page

OEP

$8.55

15

BCH113

Angela DiMatteo

$15.00

Transfer

15

10.07.2019

Stranke, Caroline/Mentor/Tutor

OSC

$12.00

12

504113

 ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐

‐‐‐‐‐

‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐

‐‐‐‐‐

09.27.2019

Twardy, Kristen/123 Read Site Coordinator

OSR

$22.24

7

504113

 ‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐

‐‐‐‐‐

‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐

‐‐‐‐‐

09.29.2019

NAME/POSTION

HOURS  EFFECTIVE 
WEEK
DATE

 30
HUMAN RESOURCES DIVISION REPORT LIST NO. 2019‐10
A

October 22, 2019
B

C

D

E

F

G

H

I

J

K

REPLACES

REASON

‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐

Adding Second Rate

‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐

Adding Second Rate

L

M

CHANGES IN HOURS/SALARY/TRANSFERS

1

COST
COST
GRADE GRADE HOURS HOURS SALARY SALARY
CHANGES IN HOURS/SALARY/TRANSFERS
CENTER CENTER
OLD
NEW
OLD
NEW
OLD
NEW
OLD
NEW
2
10
10.00
504113
OST
Alameh, Racha/Tutor/Homework Mentor (Art Experiences)
504113
OST
10
$10.00 
3
502112
OHM
1
18.14
Butler, Tiffany/Adult Education Services Literacy Instructor/Adult Education 
508111
U10
40
19.63
508111
U10
40
$19.63 
4 Services Specialist ‐ Training 
501811
U14
1
27.49
5

Jackson, Mary/Branch Services Clerk

PAS111 PAS111

6

Johnson, Gregory/Page

WVH113

7

LeVert, Alexus/Branch Services Assistant SUB/Branch Services Clerk SUB

8

Lewis, Mary/Page/Branch Services Clerk SUB

9

Money, Joanna/Sorter/Branch Services Clerk SUB

MHR111
450114
PAR113
450114
450114

MDH11
3
SLN111
Slater, Mary/Branch Services Assistant II/Branch Services Clerk SUB/Branch  GAT111
12 Services Librarian SUB
450114
O'Reilly, Judith/Page

10
11 Russo, Aja/Branch Services Assistant II 

WVH11
3
450114
450114
PAR113
450114
605111
450114

HRS  EFFECTIVE 
WEEK
DATE
10
1
40
1

09.22.2019
09.22.2019

U07

U07

20

40

$17.73  $17.73 

‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐

Increasing Hours

40

10.06.2019

OSP

OSP

15

1

$8.80 

$8.80 

‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐

Sub Status Only

1

09.22.2019

U10
U10
OSP
U07

U10
U07
OSP
U07
U03
U07

20
1
15
1

1
1
1
1
20
1

18.68
18.68
8.80
15.67

18.14
15.67
8.80
15.67
12.31
16.14

‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐

Sub Status Only

‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐

Sub Status Only

Deon Brown

Resigned

40

10.07.2019

$8.80 

Dena Rowe

Resigned

15

10.21.2019

24
20
1

09.22.2019

U07

1

$15.67 

NOL113

OSP

OSP

12

12

$8.80 

SLN111
CHF111
450114

U10
U12
U07

U11
U11
U07

24
16
1

24
20
1

$19.44  $20.66 
22.71
21.49
22.12
21.49

‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐

1/2 Completion of MLS 

‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐

Acting Assignment Ends

1
1
1
1

10.20.2019
10.06.2019

10.06.2019

13

Sterger, Michelle/Branch Services Clerk 

NOL111 NOL111

U11

U07

40

32

$20.66  $19.02 

‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐

Acting Assignment Ends

32

10.06.2019

14

Strobel, Tracy/Executive Director

400112 400112

45

OFE

40

40

$78.41  $98.55 

Sari Feldman

Retirement

40

08.03.2019

 31
HUMAN RESOURCES DIVISION REPORT LIST NO. 2019‐10

October 22, 2019

ANNIVERSARY PAY ADJUSTMENTS (Not Based on 2080 Hours)
COST CENTER

GRADE
 OLD

GRADE 
NEW

HOURS

SALARY 
OLD

SALARY 
NEW

DiMatteo, Angela/Page

NRY113

OEP

OSP

15

$8.55

$8.80

10.15.2019

Schwenn, Katherine/Page

BRV113

OEP

OSP

11

$8.55

$8.80

10.22.2019

Snider, Leslie/Page

SEU113

OEP

OSP

15

$8.55

$8.80

10.07.2019

Trunck‐Zender, Bobbi/Branch Services 
Clerk

SEU111

U07

U07

16

$15.98

$16.14

10.01.2019

Weber, Kathleen/Page

STV113

OEP

OSP

10

$8.55

$8.80

10.22.2019

NAME/POSTION

EFFECTIVE 
DATE

 32
HUMAN RESOURCES DIVISION REPORT LIST NO. 2019‐10

October 22, 2019

RESIGNATIONS
COST CENTER

GRADE

SALARY

HRS WEEK

EFFECTIVE 
DATE

Brown, Gwendolyn/Tutor

504113

OST

$9.00

10

10.01.2019

Carter, Katie/Tutor

504113

OST

$9.00

10

10.01.2019

Elpiner, Sherrie/Page

SEU113

OEP

$8.55

15

10.04.2019

Fann, Dana/Tutor

504113

OST

$9.00

10

10.01.2019

Hardin, Dawnielle/Page

WVH113

OSP

$8.80

15

09.22.2019

Houk, Lauren/Tutor

504113

OST

$9.00

10

10.01.2019

Marnecheck, Megan/Assistant Development Director

413112

39

$45.21

40

09.23.2019

Novak, Heather/Tutor

504113

OST

$9.00

10

09.16.2019

Phelps, Christine/Tutor

504113

OST

$9.00

10

10.01.2019

Searight, Anthony/Tutor

504113

OST

$10.00

10

10.01.2019

Timmons, Margaret/Homework Mentor

BAY113

OHM

$18.14

5

07.10.2019

Zerbini, Candice/Tutor

504113

OST

$9.00

5

10.01.2019

NAME/POSTION

 33
HUMAN RESOURCES DIVISION REPORT LIST NO. 2019‐10

October 22, 2019

RETIREMENTS
NAME/POSTION

COST CENTER

GRADE

SALARY

HRS WEEK

HIRE DATE

LAST WORKING 
DAY

 34
HUMAN RESOURCES DIVISION REPORT LIST NO. 2019‐10

October 22, 2019

CONFERENCE AND MEETING ATTENDANCE
NAME

DATE (S)

AMOUNT MILEAGE MEETING

Benedict, Anna

10.15.2019

$12.50 

 $          ‐   Youth Engagement Strategies/Cuyahoga County Youth Work Institute/Cleveland, Ohio

Breslin, Jessica

10.15.2019

$25.38 

Gardner, Jason

09.27.2019

$20.00 

 $          ‐   Programming for Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities/NEORLS/Online webinar

Huffman, Celia

10.31.2019 & 11.07.2019

$57.40 

 $    32.40  Social and Emotional Learning Begins with you/CWRU/Cleveland, Ohio

Jankowski, Pamela

10.16.2019 ‐ 10.18.2019

$0.00 

Kappelman, Kalyn

10.22.2019 ‐ 10.24.2019

$73.89 

Karaffa, Michael

09.27.2019

$20.00 

 $          ‐   Programming for Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities/NEORLS/Online webinar

Keefer, Lisa

12.12.2019

$0.00 

 $          ‐   Workplace Harassment in the Post #meToo Era/Kastner, Westman & Wilkins/Akron, Ohio

Keefer, Lisa

10.09.2019

$20.00 

 $          ‐   Igniting Sustainable Growth/Akron SHRM/Akron, Ohio

Keefer, Lisa

11.13.2019

$20.00 

 $          ‐   Current Trends in Workforce Diversity/Akron SHRM/Akron, Ohio

Klein, Isabel

01.24.2020 ‐ 01.28.2020

Marting, Aimee

04.23.2020 ‐ 04.25.2020

$536.00 

 $    90.00  Ohio Association for Educating Young Children/OAEYC/Sandusky, Ohio

Paulett, Nancy

10.24.2019 ‐ 10.25.2019

$150.00 

 $          ‐   Practical Techniques and Strategies for Career Development/NCDA/Beachwood, Ohio

Ranallo, Rebecca

10.21.2019 ‐ 10.23.2019

$247.50 

 $          ‐   STEM Learning Ecosystems Community/NE Ohio STEM Ecosystems/Cleveland, Ohio

Ranallo, Rebecca

10.16.2019 ‐ 10.18.2019

$0.00 

Schreiber, Mary

01.23.2020 ‐ 01.27.2020

 $    25.38  Change Leadership/CWRU/Cleveland, Ohio

 $          ‐   Urban Library Council's Annual Forum/Urban Library Council/Salt Lake City, Utah
 $    73.89  ILEAD USA ‐ Ohio/State Library of Ohio/Perrysville, Ohio

$1,400.00   $          ‐   ALA Midwinter Meeting/ALA/Philadelphia, PA

 $          ‐   Urban Library Council's Annual Forum/Urban Library Council/Salt Lake City, Utah

$1,400.00   $          ‐   ALA Midwinter Meeting/ALA/Philadelphia, PA

Seals, Talia

11.14.2019

$0.00 

Sterba, Christine

10.17.2019

$185.00 

Todd, Michelle

09.25.2019

$12.42 

 $    12.42  Cleveland's Pregnancy and Infant Loss Film Premiere/Healthy Neighborhood's Committee/Cleveland, Ohio

11.18.2019 ‐ 11.21.2019

$512.00 

 $          ‐   Family Place Training Institute/Middle County Public Library/Centereach, NY

Ward, Alex

$4,692.09 

 $          ‐   Developing your EI/CWRU/Cleveland, Ohio
 $          ‐   Back to the Book XX/NORLS/Twinsburg, Ohio

 35

Financial Statement Analysis
September 2019

Revenues
For General Property Taxes we received what will be our settlement for the second half
of the year. We may see some much smaller amounts come in for the remainder of the
year. With this settlement we have exceeded our estimate for the year by $776,746.
Our September distribution for the PLF was larger than what we received last year.
With this distribution we are still on budget. We have also received a revised estimate
for the 2019 PLF from the state and that estimate is a little over $377,000 than what we
originally budgeted. This is for increased collections as well as the slight increase in the
percentage that libraries received as part of the new biennium budget from the state
that began in July.
If that estimate is correct, the increased amount along with the increase in our budget
for General Property Taxes will fund our $1,000,000 carryover budgeted for 2020.
Interest is also exceeding our original estimates. The larger increase in rates than
expected has brought in additional revenue. Based on some of our recent maturities we
are beginning to see some of those increases leveling off.
Patron Fines and Fees in total are currently exceeding our estimates. Once again it is
passport fees and photos which are the reason for the increase. Sale of Resale
Supplies is also slightly exceeding our estimates.
All other revenue accounts are where we would expect them to be for the month and
the year.

Expenses
Expenses for Salaries and Benefits are right in budget for the month of August.
accounts.
Many of the other expense accounts have higher than expected percentages for
expenses and encumbrances because many of these accounts have standing orders
encumbered against them to pay monthly and recurring expenses.
All other General Fund expense accounts are where we would expect them to be for the
month and the year.
In the Capital Fund projects the final expenses for the Maple Heights renovation were
paid. The only projects open are the Bay Village and Richmond Heights Branches.

 36

Investments
We purchased one piece of commercial paper from Toyota Motor Credit at a rate of
2.01%, which for the current market is a good rate. No other purchases or maturities to
report.

Transfers
There were 3 transfers from the General Fund to Special Revenue Funds as follows:
Summer Camps

$59,869.39

Special School Programs $24,273.47
Homework Centers

$11,074.27

 37
CUYAHOGA COUNTY PUBLIC LIBRARY

General Fund

REVENUE
Fiscal 2019 -September
Acct. General Fund
No. Line Item Description

75% of Year
2019
Balance Notes

1200 General Property Taxes
1250 Intergovernmental
Public Library Fund
Property Taxes
2200 Grants
2300 Local Government
3100 Patron Fines & Fees
Fines and Fees Income
Passport Fee
Passport Photo Fee
Meeting Room Rental Fees
4000 Interest
5500 Services Provided Other Entities
6100 Restricted Gifts
6500 Unrestricted Gifts
8100 Sale of Property
8200 Sale of Resale Supplies
8300 Rental of Real Property
8700 Refunds and Reimbursements
8900 Miscellaneous
9800 Advances In
9900 Transfers In
Carryover
TOTAL -- General Fund
TOTAL -- Capital Fund - 402
TOTAL -- Note Retirement Fund - 301
TOTAL -- Trust Fund (Regular) - 701
TOTAL -- Trust Fund (Special) - 702
TOTAL -- Endowment Fund - 801
TOTAL -- Agency Fund (FSA) - 901
TOTAL -- Project Build - 223
TOTAL -- Entrepreneruships Adult & Youth - 232
TOTAL -- Cleve Found Encore Initiative - 236
TOTAL -- My Com Neighborhood - 242
TOTAL -- Memory Lab Grant - 243
TOTAL -- WVH Garden Grant - 244
TOTAL -- Adult Education Services - 247
TOTAL -- Project Learn - 248
TOTAL -- Baby Club - 249
TOTAL -- IPAD Lab - 253
TOTAL -- Food & Culinary Literacy Program
TOTAL -- Hotspot Lending Program
TOTAL -- TCF Fellow - 259
TOTAL -- Poetry Out Loud - 261
TOTAL -- Homework Centers - 270
TOTAL -- Summer Camps - 280
TOTAL -- Kindergarten & Baby Kits - 290
TOTAL -- Special School Program. - 293
GRAND TOTAL -- All Funds

2019
Revenue

2018 Final
Revenue

2019 MTD
Received

$37,859,310.00
$25,634,817.35
$20,994,127.35
$4,640,690.00
$0.00
$0.00
$1,350,000.00
$350,000.00
$732,000.00
$250,000.00
$18,000.00
$80,000.00
$2,500.00
$0.00
$55,000.00
$22,000.00
$107,225.00
$0.00
$445,775.00
$25,000.00
$25,084.06
$0.00
$1,851,996.98

$38,085,182.73

$500,000.00

$0.00
$1,945,385.45
$1,945,385.45
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$78,972.71
$25,842.71
$37,485.00
$13,010.00
$2,635.00
$31,807.69
$45.00
$79.90
$1,050.00
$202.77
$8,496.60
$3,851.00
$72,278.77
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00

$67,458,708.39

$66,117,100.83

$200,000.00
$4,665,506.00
$250,000.00
$20,000.00
$1,000.00
$80,000.00
$10,000.00
$1,625.00
$0.00
$200,299.84
$0.00
$2,000.00
$2,344,360.32
$359,193.02
$43,762.12
$0.00
$28,000.00
$50,809.00
$50,000.00
$5,000.00
$429,882.00
$120,000.00
$20,000.00
$334,177.60

$3,433,289.13

$76,674,323.29

2018 MTD
Received

2019 YTD
Received

2018 YTD
Received

2019 %
Received

$6,295.93

$38,075,602.90

$0.00

$38,636,056.48
$20,746,617.95
$16,186,795.42
$4,559,822.53
$0.00
$0.00
$1,079,734.02
$226,753.05
$635,390.00
$204,265.97
$13,325.00
$169,862.53
$1,756.32
$20,735.64
$21,461.75
$14,961.77
$92,042.04
$19,255.00
$260,741.29
$8,861.60
$0.00
$30,406.56
$1,851,996.98

$500,000.00

102.1%
80.9%
77.1%
98.3%
0.0%
0.0%
80.0%
64.8%
86.8%
81.7%
74.0%
212.3%
70.3%
0.0%
39.0%
68.0%
85.8%
0.0%
58.5%
35.4%
0.0%
0.0%
100.0%

$776,746.48
($4,888,199.40)
($4,807,331.93)
($80,867.47)
$0.00
$0.00
($270,265.98)
($123,246.95)
($96,610.00)
($45,734.03)
($4,675.00)
$89,862.53
($743.68)
$20,735.64
($33,538.25)
($7,038.23)
($15,182.96)
$19,255.00
($185,033.71)
($16,138.40)
($25,084.06)
$30,406.56
$0.00

$2,142,169.89

$4,350,956.08

$62,954,489.93

$60,486,290.20

93.3%

($4,504,218.46)

$11,304.54

$7,382.50

$268,141.50
$4,665,506.00
$88,535.68
$96,733.16
$1,461.33
$77,289.68
$1,149.24
$0.00
$0.00
$50,000.00
$0.00
$2,000.00
$881,080.23
$160,648.07
$0.00
$0.00
$28,000.00
$22,500.00
$25,000.00
$5,000.00
$143,074.27
$121,909.39
$20,000.00
$170,922.67

$246,037.82

$180,998.41

$26,439.08
$0.00
$5,518.30
$1,217.07
$146.94
$8,701.41
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$3,190.00
$6,851.88
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$5,000.00
$11,074.27
$57,569.39
$0.00
$36,573.47

$131,847.59

0.0%
100.0%
35.4%
483.7%
146.1%
96.6%
11.5%
0.0%
0.0%
25.0%
0.0%
100.0%
37.6%
44.7%
0.0%
0.0%
100.0%
44.3%
0.0%
100.0%
33.3%
101.6%
100.0%
51.1%

$68,141.50
$0.00
($161,464.32)
$76,733.16
$461.33
($2,710.32)
($8,850.76)
($1,625.00)
$0.00
($150,299.84)
$0.00
$0.00
($1,463,280.09)
($198,544.95)
($43,762.12)
$0.00
$0.00
($28,309.00)
($25,000.00)
$0.00
($286,807.73)
$1,909.39
$0.00
($163,254.93)

$78,050,984.81

$2,304,451.70

$4,512,240.96

$69,783,441.15

$68,144,153.59

91.0%

($6,890,882.14)

$25,409,713.62
$20,769,026.45
$4,640,687.17
$0.00
$0.00
$1,356,592.28
$373,364.63
$716,086.40
$249,460.00
$17,681.25
$38,929.65
$2,710.43
$33,619.90
$22,453.56
$10,786.43
$125,016.94
$23,481.00
$395,639.95
$38,992.37
$72,108.25
$1,873.72

$4,665,481.00
$350,211.38
$712,900.71
$1,543.28
$100,414.94
$1,149.24
$36,975.00
$46,659.29
$103,094.83
$0.00
$1,000.00
$1,378,848.54
$358,293.23
$38,453.00
$0.00
$65,500.00
$41,934.00
$0.00
$0.00
$300,103.84
$103,534.16
$13,500.00

$4,188,571.80
$1,864,165.02
$2,324,406.78
$0.00
$0.00
$79,417.17
$24,683.42
$39,305.00
$13,960.00
$1,468.75
$6,853.88
$0.00
$50.03
$0.00
$4,762.00
$8,856.68
$962.75
$55,185.84
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00

$0.00
$9,086.21
$4,172.60
$139.32
$8,477.78
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$95,962.93
$14,759.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$10,000.00
$0.00
$0.00

$20,170,290.06
$15,532,660.99
$4,637,629.07
$0.00
$0.00
$1,084,483.08
$293,942.93
$572,831.40
$202,940.00
$14,768.75
$8,528.92
$2,148.64
$28,111.02
$22,325.56
$10,711.43
$94,415.13
$20,592.75
$362,506.66
$34,465.80
$72,108.25
$0.00

$4,665,481.00
$194,476.37
$702,367.54
$1,079.00
$75,038.98
$0.00
$9,975.00
$24,409.29
$58,094.83
$0.00
$1,000.00
$852,163.32
$279,754.65
$0.00
$0.00
$50,000.00
$22,500.00
$0.00
$0.00
$245,103.84
$98,534.16
$0.00

 38
CUYAHOGA COUNTY PUBLIC LIBRARY
BUDGET EXPENDITURE STATUS
Fiscal 2019 -September
Acct. General Fund
No.
Line Item Description
1000s
1110
1400
1600
1900
2000s
2100
2200
2300
2500
3000s
3100
3200
3300
3400
3500
3600
3700
3900
4000s
4100
4200
4300
4500
4700
4900
5000s
5100
5400
5500
5700
7000s
7100
7200
7500
7900
8000s
8999
9000s
9899
9999

2019
2018 C/O
Appropriation Encumbrance

2018 Final
Expended

2019 MTD
Expended
$2,138,874.77
$296,451.84
$465,633.22
$1,547.00
$2,902,506.83

$2,054,501.26

$32,512.53
$22,435.30
$7,409.23
$72,500.00
$134,857.06

$25,763.18

56.4%
$28,000,000.00
$3,919,245.00
$6,070,142.00
$60,613.00
$38,050,000.00

$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00

$28,038,950.21

2.1%
$696,035.00
$371,115.00
$105,665.00
$229,885.00
$1,402,700.00

$18,326.44
$1,050.00
$830.04
$0.00
$20,206.48

$628,227.86

16.1%
$167,810.00
$1,069,260.00
$3,080,052.00
$302,500.00
$947,855.00
$1,676,380.00
$1,919,273.00
$1,667,270.00
$10,830,400.00

$0.00
$750.00
$49,224.69
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$24,382.00
$0.00
$74,356.69

LIBRARY MATERIALS & INFORMATION
Books & Pamphlets
Periodicals
Audiovisual Material
Computer Services & Information
Library Material Repair & Restoration
Library Materials-Other
SUBTOTAL -- LIBRARY MATERIALS

13.2%
$5,190,953.00
$268,020.00
$2,120,059.00
$1,260,986.00
$1,000.00
$62,482.00
$8,903,500.00

$318,318.88
$10.00
$207,574.96
$0.00
$0.00
$2,777.86
$528,681.70

CAPITAL OUTLAY
Purchase of Land
Building Improvements
Furniture & Equipment
Motor Vehicles
SUBTOTAL -- CAPITAL OUTLAY

4.4%
$0.00
$800,000.00
$2,105,000.00
$95,000.00
$3,000,000.00

$0.00
$308,761.30
$116,902.11
$0.00
$425,663.41

OTHER OBJECTS
Dues and Memberships
Taxes and Assessments
Refunds and Reimbursements
Other Miscellaneous Expenses
SUBTOTAL -- OTHER OBJECTS

0.1%
$43,015.00
$36,990.00
$7,495.00
$2,500.00
$90,000.00

$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00

$43,929.99

CONTINGENCY
Contingency
SUBTOTAL -- CONTINGENCY

0.0%
$32,108.39
$32,108.39

$0.00
$0.00

$0.00

7.6%
$0.00
$5,150,000.00
$5,150,000.00

$0.00
$0.00
$0.00

$5,002,352.91

$1,048,908.28

SALARIES & BENEFITS
Salaries
Retirement Benefits-Employer
Insurance Benefits-Employer
Other Employee Benefits
SUBTOTAL -- SALARIES & BENEFITS
SUPPLIES
General Administrative Supplies
Property Maintenance & Repair Supplies
Motor Equipment Fuel & Supplies
Supplies for Resale
SUBTOTAL -- SUPPLIES
PURCHASED & CONTRACTED SERVICES
Travel & Meeting Expenses
Communications-Printing & Publications
Property Maintenance & Repair Service
Insurance
Rents and Leases
Utilities
Professional Services
Other Contracted Services
SUBTOTAL -- CONTRACTED SERVICES

TRANSFERS OUT
Advances to Other Funds
Transfers to Other Funds
SUBTOTAL -- TRANSFERS OUT

GRAND TOTAL -- General Fund

$67,458,708.39

$3,904,278.21
$5,472,877.37
$58,178.74
$37,474,284.53

$298,082.48
$92,977.86
$148,494.30
$1,167,782.50

$178,640.91
$809,582.34
$2,685,945.06
$259,684.00
$766,467.97
$1,703,600.27
$2,260,765.84
$1,527,418.17
$10,192,104.56

$5,760,436.64
$187,694.61
$1,546,354.32
$1,249,748.68
$189.00
$32,958.92
$8,777,382.17

$0.00
$826,905.18
$421,589.50
$190,013.50
$1,438,508.18

$32,559.86
$5,384.83
$684.50
$82,559.18

$0.00

$5,916.43
$38,690.18
$95,342.96
$218,113.00
$57,798.93
$124,212.78
$60,221.63
$22,970.35
$623,266.26
$629,238.12
$264.44
$231,410.83
$57,136.79
$0.00
$1,985.79
$920,035.97
$0.00
$927.22
$19,020.21
$0.00
$19,947.43
$915.00
$1,536.55
$1,639.53
$710.00
$4,801.08
$0.00
$0.00

2018 MTD
Expended

$290,044.87
$417,200.08
$1,759.78
$2,763,505.99

$13,931.67
$10,206.55
$12,570.00
$62,471.40

$7,086.72
$53,584.19
$73,258.35
$0.00
$58,993.55
$123,383.51
$56,873.51
$36,248.81
$409,428.64

$583,508.52
$273.40
$110,433.06
$61,376.75
$189.00
$1,930.53
$757,711.26

$0.00
$26,847.72
$9,791.03
$0.00
$36,638.75

$788.63
$1,781.11
$25.20
$16.00
$2,610.94

$0.00
$0.00

$71,400.00

$5,027,436.97

$0.00
$95,217.13
$95,217.13

$64,160,058.09

$4,700,631.76

$25,084.06

2018 YTD
Expended

2019 Enc +
PY Enc

$20,593,520.12
$2,874,381.01
$4,547,794.07
$34,235.85
$28,049,931.05

$20,385,864.10

$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00

$20,593,520.12
$2,874,381.01
$4,547,794.07
$34,235.85
$28,049,931.05

73.5%
73.3%
74.9%
56.5%
73.7%

$7,406,479.88
$1,044,863.99
$1,522,347.93
$26,377.15
$10,000,068.95

$438,026.62
$219,318.71
$56,601.51
$145,073.50
$859,020.34

$468,963.03

$240,572.12
$152,795.73
$46,870.15
$48,316.58
$488,554.58

$678,598.74
$372,114.44
$103,471.66
$193,390.08
$1,347,574.92

95.0%
100.0%
97.2%
84.1%
94.7%

$35,762.70
$50.56
$3,023.38
$36,494.92
$75,331.56

$123,526.93
$616,810.14
$1,838,836.90
$265,857.00
$563,276.84
$1,184,852.36
$1,551,189.25
$1,273,153.24
$7,417,502.66

$125,242.42

$0.00
$99,766.78
$1,290,125.91
$36,643.00
$384,414.37
$0.00
$391,724.61
$393,287.88
$2,595,962.55

$123,526.93
$716,576.92
$3,128,962.81
$302,500.00
$947,691.21
$1,184,852.36
$1,942,913.86
$1,666,441.12
$10,013,465.21

73.6%
67.0%
100.0%
100.0%
100.0%
70.7%
100.0%
100.0%
91.8%

$44,283.07
$353,433.08
$313.88
$0.00
$163.79
$491,527.64
$741.14
$828.88
$891,291.48

$486,979.97
$10.00
$268,366.25
$0.00
$0.00
$4,727.13
$760,083.35

$4,848,776.12
$12,933.41
$1,979,632.49
$842,899.16
$0.00
$12,690.58
$7,696,931.76

88.0%
4.8%
85.0%
66.8%
0.0%
19.4%
81.6%

$660,495.76
$255,096.59
$348,001.47
$418,086.84
$1,000.00
$52,569.28
$1,735,249.94

$0.00
$439,630.77
$116,073.25
$0.00
$555,704.02

$0.00
$880,767.74
$386,785.01
$83,906.50
$1,351,459.25

0.0%
79.4%
17.4%
88.3%
39.5%

$0.00
$227,993.56
$1,835,117.10
$11,093.50
$2,074,204.16

$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00

$40,278.74
$32,921.23
$2,587.25
$2,498.96
$78,286.18

93.6%
89.0%
34.5%
100.0%
87.0%

$2,736.26
$4,068.77
$4,907.75
$1.04
$11,713.82

$0.00
$0.00

$0.00
$0.00

0.0%
0.0%

$32,108.39
$32,108.39

$0.00
$4,911,403.96
$4,911,403.96

0.0%
95.4%
95.4%

$0.00
$238,596.04
$238,596.04

$53,449,052.33

78.0%

$15,058,564.34

$4,361,796.15
$12,923.41
$1,711,266.24
$842,899.16
$0.00
$7,963.45
$6,936,848.41
$0.00
$441,136.97
$270,711.76
$83,906.50
$795,755.23

$2,856,765.40
$4,177,140.14
$33,461.87
$27,453,231.51

$242,103.38
$74,959.05
$120,831.39
$906,856.85

$620,868.27
$1,871,058.12
$257,306.00
$582,429.54
$1,338,572.82
$1,954,194.34
$1,164,617.02
$7,914,288.53

$4,651,126.40
$10,957.01
$1,158,190.34
$913,865.13
$189.00
$19,923.66
$6,754,251.54

$0.00
$658,727.68
$387,185.60
$190,013.50
$1,235,926.78

$40,278.74
$32,921.23
$2,587.25
$2,498.96
$78,286.18

$37,109.64

$0.00
$0.00

$0.00

$28,590.13
$2,418.80
$179.50
$68,298.07

$0.00

$4,927,668.70

$71,400.00

$0.00
$4,911,403.96
$4,911,403.96

$4,927,668.70

$0.00
$0.00
$0.00

$4,103,766.98

$49,048,747.83

$49,260,521.98

$4,400,304.50

$0.00

$0.00

2019
2019 %
Exp+Enc Exp+Enc

75% of Year
2019
Balance

2019 YTD
Expended

 39

CUYAHOGA COUNTY PUBLIC LIBRARY
BUDGET EXPENDITURE STATUS
Fiscal 2019 -September

FUND
223
232
236
242
243
244
247
248
249
253
256
257
259
261
270
280
290
293
301
402
701
702
801
901

Line Item Description
TOTAL -- Project Build
TOTAL -- Entrepreneurships Adult & Youth
TOTAL -- Cleveland Foundation Encore Initiative
TOTAL -- MyCom Neighborhood
TOTAL -- Memory Lab
TOTAL -- WVH Garden Grant
TOTAL -- Adult Education Services
TOTAL -- Project Learn
TOTAL -- Baby Club
TOTAL -- IPAD Lab
TOTAL -- Food & Culinary Literacy Programs
TOTAL -- Hotspot Lending Program
TOTAL -- TCF Fellow
TOTAL -- Poetry Out Loud
TOTAL -- Homework Centers
TOTAL -- Summer Camps
TOTAL -- Kindergarten & Baby Kits
TOTAL -- Special School Programming
TOTAL -- Note Retirement Fund
TOTAL -- Capital Fund
TOTAL -- Trust Fund (Regular)
TOTAL -- Trust Fund (Special)
TOTAL -- Endowment Fund
TOTAL -- Agency Fund (FSA)

GRAND TOTAL -- All Funds

75% of Year
2019
2018 C/O
Appropriation Encumbrance
$10,000.00
$65,090.26
$17,199.21
$221,525.50
$8,468.18
$3,041.09
$2,381,443.99
$554,054.42
$81,250.53
$1,638.36
$70,600.00
$50,809.00
$50,000.00
$5,000.00
$469,766.37
$125,000.00
$33,500.00
$334,177.60
$4,665,506.00
$7,000,000.00
$140,000.00
$70,000.00
$75,000.00
$110,000.00

$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$137,830.74
$12,256.37
$35,550.00
$0.00
$0.00

$16,543,070.51

$185,637.11

2018 Final
Expended

2019 MTD
Expended

2018 MTD
Expended

$1,149.24

$0.00

$55,558.33

$100,000.00

$0.00
$0.00
$7,705.33
$0.00
$127.05
$57,997.33
$35,122.97
$860.66
$0.00
$1,040.39
$36,840.00
$932.49
$0.00
$4,749.93
$17,300.00
$187.25
$7,724.38
$0.00
$137,250.51
$3,330.33
$2,111.99
$0.00
$8,095.46

$17,280,621.03

$321,376.07

$41,905.37
$81,872.23
$47,910.23
$3,365.65
$1,341,764.87
$278,389.96
$14,921.58
$5,486.64
$22,900.00
$41,934.00
$0.00
$0.00
$282,913.12
$106,034.16
$0.00
$212,875.96
$4,665,481.26
$6,709,357.06
$855,404.56
$2,410,574.17
$822.64

2019 YTD
Expended

2018 YTD
Expended

2019 ENC +
PY Enc

$0.00

$323.71

$1,058.61

$0.00

$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$520.68
$0.00
$0.00
$33,018.45
$20,833.08
$12,472.79
$0.00
$42.72
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$1,369.60
$0.00
$351.60
$28,481.70
$0.00
$814,420.57
$4,959.82
$8,905.01

$4,572.65

$20,854.17
$17,199.21
$74,424.89
$3,135.28
$2,552.97
$1,020,207.55
$288,743.97
$37,952.24
$0.00
$34,997.55
$36,911.99
$932.49
$0.00
$178,855.24
$126,909.39
$30,019.25
$145,330.65
$1,075,253.13
$593,949.64
$57,296.84
$83,264.18
$0.00
$83,830.78

$348,915.49

$3,912,945.12

$49.84
$7,219.27
$0.00
$0.00
$155,365.34
$21,056.49
$3,271.95
$0.00
$0.00
$41,934.00
$0.00
$0.00
$4,273.06
$1,950.00
$0.00
$15,770.04
$0.00
$92,258.35
$1,194.50
$0.00
$0.00

2019
2019 %
Exp+Enc Exp+Enc 2019 Balance
$323.71

3.2%

$9,676.29

32.0%
100.0%
33.8%
37.0%
83.9%
44.2%
55.9%
62.1%
0.0%
49.6%
72.6%
1.9%
0.0%
38.4%
101.5%
90.7%
52.0%

$44,236.09
$0.00
$146,579.93
$5,332.90
$488.12
$1,328,217.99
$244,477.37
$30,825.50
$1,638.36
$35,559.73
$13,897.01
$49,067.51
$5,000.00
$289,541.53
($1,909.39)
$3,129.15
$160,365.25
$3,590,252.87
$5,729,460.53
$89,999.71
$13,380.81
$75,000.00
$26,169.22

28.9%

$79,326.59

$0.00
$0.00

$20,854.17
$17,199.21
$74,945.57
$3,135.28
$2,552.97
$1,053,226.00
$309,577.05
$50,425.03
$0.00
$35,040.27
$36,911.99
$932.49
$0.00
$180,224.84
$126,909.39
$30,370.85
$173,812.35
$1,075,253.13
$1,408,370.21
$62,256.66
$92,169.19
$0.00
$83,830.78

$9,492,442.70

$925,376.02

$4,838,321.14

$44,861.64
$20,254.42
$58,479.77
$37,586.65
$2,721.08
$982,471.90
$217,057.77
$10,521.16
$5,486.64
$0.00
$41,934.00
$0.00
$0.00
$171,707.76
$106,034.16
$0.00
$152,203.90
$1,112,740.63
$6,315,390.81
$25,471.24
$107,133.97
$0.00

23.0%
19.7%
40.9%
87.3%
0.0%
76.2%

$11,890,386.48

 40

CUYAHOGA COUNTY PUBLIC LIBRARY
Capital Fund Balances
Fiscal 2019 --September
FUND

CC

Project
Budget

2019
Expenditures

Expenditures
To Date (1)

Encumbered
& Unpaid (2)

$630,693.43
$510,363.92
$52,093.50
$1,193,150.85

$797,056.07
$0.00
$0.00
$797,056.07

Project
Balance (3)

STATUS

Capital Fund - 402
Bay
Maple Heights
Richmond
Total Capital Fund - 402

004
037
070

$7,500,000.00
$550,000.00
$2,000,000.00
$10,050,000.00

$410,793.93
$127,912.15
$52,093.50
$590,799.58

Chart Title

1

2

3

$6,072,250.50
$39,636.08
$1,947,906.50
$8,059,793.08

COMPLETED

 41

CUYAHOGA COUNTY PUBLIC LIBRARY
All Funds Cash Balance
Fiscal 2019 --September 2019
Beginning
Cash Balance

Fund
General Fund
Debt Service
Capital Fund - 402
Trust Fund - Regular
Trust Fund - Special
Endowment Fund
Agency Fund
Project Build
Keybank FNDTH College Prep/Entrepreneurship
Cleveland Foundation Encore Initiative
MyCom Neighborhood
Memory Lab Grant
WVH Garden Grant
Adult Education Services (AES)
Project Learn
Baby Club
IPAD Lab
Food & Culinary Literacy Programs
Hotspot Lending Program
TCF Fellow
Poetry Out Loud
Homework Centers
Summer Camps
Kindergarten and Baby Kits
Special School Programming
SUBTOTAL

Receipts
To Date

Expenditures
To Date

Cash
Balance

$2,900,905.26
$418.70
$15,125,123.85
$772,058.63
$651,066.52
$79,139.62
$49,790.20
$0.00
$63,465.26
$17,199.21
$21,225.66
$8,468.18
$1,041.09
$37,083.67
$194,861.40
$37,488.41
$1,638.36
$42,600.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$39,884.37
$5,000.00
$13,500.00
$0.00

$61,102,492.95
$4,665,506.00
$268,141.50
$88,535.68
$96,733.16
$1,461.33
$77,289.68
$1,149.24
$0.00
$0.00
$50,000.00
$0.00
$2,000.00
$881,080.23
$160,648.07
$0.00
$0.00
$28,000.00
$22,500.00
$25,000.00
$5,000.00
$143,074.27
$121,909.39
$20,000.00
$170,922.67

$49,048,747.83
$1,075,253.13
$593,949.64
$57,296.84
$83,264.18
$0.00
$83,830.78
$323.71
$20,854.17
$17,199.21
$74,424.89
$3,135.28
$2,552.97
$1,020,207.55
$288,743.97
$37,952.24
$0.00
$34,997.55
$36,911.99
$932.49
$0.00
$178,855.24
$126,909.39
$30,019.25
$145,330.65

$14,954,650.38
$3,590,671.57
$14,799,315.71
$803,297.47
$664,535.50
$80,600.95
$43,249.10
$825.53
$42,611.09
$0.00
($3,199.23)
$5,332.90
$488.12
($102,043.65)
$66,765.50
($463.83)
$1,638.36
$35,602.45
($14,411.99)
$24,067.51
$5,000.00
$4,103.40
$0.00
$3,480.75
$25,592.02

$20,061,958.39

$67,931,444.17

$52,961,692.95

$35,031,709.61

 42

CUYAHOGA COUNTY PUBLIC LIBRARY
Investments Approval
Fiscal 2019 --September
Description
Money Market Funds
Sweep Account
Money Market Fund
Money Market Fund
Money Market Fund
ICS Account
Star Ohio Accounts
Star Ohio Accounts

Institution
of Deposit

Par Value/Qty.

Purchase
Yield

1.01%
0.00%
1.85%
1.70%
0.52%

Purchase
Date

Maturity
Date

% of Assets

Key Bank
Northwest Bank
US Bank
Fifth Third
TriState Capital

$5,849,915.38
$100.00
$176,881.08
$60,692.06
$0.00

n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a

n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a

16.64%
0.00%
0.50%
0.17%
0.00%

Star Ohio

$18,539,385.81

2.25% n/a

n/a

52.73%

JP Morgan Securities LLC
Mufg Union Bk
Bnp Paribas
Citibank
Toronto Dominion Ban
Citibank

$370,000.00
$300,000.00
$300,000.00
$135,000.00
$125,000.00
$240,000.00

2.68%
2.73%
2.58%
2.46%
2.44%
2.01%

February 27, 2019
February 27, 2019
April 29, 2019
May 31, 2019
June 10, 2019
September 16, 2019

November 22, 2019
November 22, 2019
October 25, 2019
November 26, 2019
October 18, 2019
June 12, 2020

1.05%
0.85%
0.85%
0.38%
0.36%
0.68%

Discover Bank
Capital One National Bank
Capital One National Bank
Goldman Saks Bank
Amex Centurion
TriState Capital
Fifth Third Bank
Mutual Savings Bank
State Bank of India
Wells Fargo Bank National Assoc
Multi-Bank Securities Inc
Multi-Bank Securities Inc
Multi-Bank Securities Inc
Multi-Bank Securities Inc/Ally Bk Midvale

$247,000.00
$247,000.00
$247,000.00
$247,000.00
$247,000.00
$2,137,655.18
$245,000.00
$245,000.00
$245,000.00
$250,000.00
$249,000.00
$246,000.00
$246,000.00
$246,000.00

2.30%
2.28%
2.28%
2.20%
2.27%
2.45%
2.45%
2.45%
2.45%
2.35%
2.65%
2.55%
2.50%
2.50%

October 19, 2015
October 19, 2015
October 19, 2015
October 21, 2015
October 29, 2015
June 20, 2019
March 27, 2019
March 27, 2019
March 27, 2019
April 24, 2019
May 22, 2019
May 22, 2019
May 30, 2019
June 10, 2019

September 30, 2020
October 7, 2020
October 7, 2020
October 21, 2020
October 28, 2020
June 18, 2020
March 27, 2020
March 27, 2020
March 25, 2020
May 26, 2020
May 15, 2023
May 16, 2022
May 28, 2021
June 6, 2022

0.70%
0.70%
0.70%
0.70%
0.70%
6.08%
0.70%
0.70%
0.70%
0.71%
0.71%
0.70%
0.70%
0.70%

Davidson DA & Company
Davidson DA & Company
Davidson DA & Company
Fcstone Financial Inc.

$1,100,000.00
$550,000.00
$1,040,000.00
$1,030,000.00

1.50%
1.42%
1.40%
1.60%

September 30, 2016
July 27, 2016
August 30, 2016
August 30, 2016

September 30, 2020
July 27, 2020
August 28, 2020
August 24, 2021

3.13%
1.56%
2.96%
2.93%

US Treasury

US Government Agency Discount Notes
Commercial Paper
JP Morgan Securities
Mufg Bank Ltd
Bnp Paribas NY
Toyota Motor Credit
Toronto Dominion Securities
Toyota Motor Credit
Certificate of Deposit
Certificate of Deposit
Certificate of Deposit
Certificate of Deposit
Certificate of Deposit
Certificate of Deposit
Certificate of Deposit (CDARS)
Certificate of Deposit
Certificate of Deposit
Certificate of Deposit
Certificate of Deposit
Certificate of Deposit
Certificate of Deposit
Certificate of Deposit
Certificate of Deposit
Agency Securities
Federal National Mortgage
Federal National Mortgage
Federal National Mortgage
Federal National Mortgage
TOTAL PORTFOLIO

$35,161,629.51

100.00%

 43
CUYAHOGA COUNTY PUBLIC LIBRARY
Purchase Approval List
October 21, 2019
Item Quantity

Description

Supplier

Unit Cost

Total Amount

ENCUMBRANCE INCREASES
1

Baby Club programing, additional hours
SUMMARY: Necessary to increase original PO from $16,312 to $18,312 for
additional program support of Baby Club.
As requested by the Learning and Literacy Division.

2

Two Gen-You-Win

$2,000.00

Staples
Technology Solutions

$5,482.00

Six additional laptops, added to original lease
SUMMARY: Necessary to increase original PO for additional laptops needed for staff.
As requested by the Information Technologies Division.
NEW PURCHASES

3

17

Elo X series All in one Touchcomputer
SUMMARY: Necessary equipment for new self checks.
As requested by the Information Technologies Division.

$1,150.00
Staples
Technology Solutions

$19,550.00

 44
Cuyahoga County Public Library
Gift Report / September 1 ‐ 30, 2019
Gift Amount
$500.00
$967.01
$305.69
$250.00
$752.06
$355.57
$71.11
$346.75
$282.54
$3,395.73
$1,056.95
$100.00
$5,000.00
$10,000.00

Donor
Friends of the Berea Branch
Friends of the Brecksville Branch
Friends of the Brook Park Branch
Friends of the Fairview Park Branch
Friends of the Middleburg Heights Branch
Friends of the North Olmsted Branch
Friends of the North Royalton Branch
Friends of the Olmsted Falls Branch
Friends of the Parma Heights Branch
Friends of the Solon Branch
Friends of the Strongsville Branch
North Coast Needlers Quilt Guild
Ohio Arts Council
Frank and Barb Sullivan

Recipient
Berea Branch Trust Fund
Brecksville Branch Trust Fund
Brook Park Branch Trust Fund
Fairview Park Branch Trust Fund
Middleburg Heights Branch Trust Fund
North Olmsted Branch Trust Fund
North Royalton Branch Trust Fund
Olmsted Falls Branch Trust Fund
Parma Heights Branch Trust Fund
Solon Branch Trust Fund
Strongsville Branch Trust Fund
North Olmsted Branch Trust Fund
CCPL
CCPL

Purpose
September programming and supplies
September programming and supplies
September programming and supplies
September programming and supplies
September programming and supplies
September programming and supplies
September programming and supplies
September programming and supplies
September programming and supplies
September programming and supplies
September programming and supplies
Appreciation for use of meeting room
Poetry Out Loud Progran
1‐2‐3 READ

 45

Cuyahoga County Public Library
Resolution To Amend Official Certificate of Estimated Resources and Amend
Appropriations
Whereas,

the current Certificate of Estimated Resources and Appropriations need to be amended for the
year ending December 31, 2019.

Now therefore be it resolved, by the Board of Trustees of Cuyahoga County Public Library amend the
Official Certificate of Estimated Resources and Amend the Appropriations as follows:
Official Certificate of Estimated Resources
Special Revenue Fund:
247 -- Adult Educational Services (AES)
248 – Project Learn
257 -- Hotspot Learning Program
280 -- Summer Camps

$
$
$
$

24,000.00
225,264.00
55,000.00
1,909.39

$
$
$
$

24,000.00
225,264.00
55,000.00
1,909.39

Appropriations Amendment
Special Revenue Fund:
247 -- Adult Educational Services (AES)
248 -- Project Learn
257 -- Hotspot Learning Program
280 – Summer Camps

Approved 21 October 2019
________________________________
Patricia A. Shlonsky
President
________________________________
Dean E. DePiero
Secretary

 