AGENDA
CUYAHOGA COUNTY HUMAN RESOURCES, APPOINTMENTS & EQUITY
COMMITTEE MEETING
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2019
CUYAHOGA COUNTY ADMINISTRATIVE HEADQUARTERS
C. ELLEN CONNALLY COUNCIL CHAMBERS – 4TH FLOOR
10:00 AM
1. CALL TO ORDER
2. ROLL CALL
3. PUBLIC COMMENT
4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES FROM THE OCTOBER 1, 2019 MEETING [See page 3]
5. MATTERS REFERRED TO COMMITTEE
a)

R2019-0225: A Resolution confirming the County Executive’s
appointment of Megan L. Van Voorhis to serve on the Alcohol, Drug
Addiction and Mental Health Services Board of Cuyahoga County for an
unexpired term ending 6/30/2020, and declaring the necessity that this
Resolution become immediately effective. [See page 6]

b)

R2019-0234: A Resolution adopting various changes to the Cuyahoga
County Non-bargaining Classification Plan, and declaring the necessity
that this Resolution become immediately effective. [See page 12]

c)

R2019-0237: A Resolution confirming the County Executive’s
reappointment of various individuals to serve on the Cuyahoga County
Archives Advisory Commission for the term 12/1/2019 - 11/30/2023,
and declaring the necessity that this Resolution become immediately
effective: [See page 118]

i.

Deborah A. Abbott
Page 1 of 2
Page 1 of 125

 ii.
d)

Kieth A. Peppers

R2019-0243: A Resolution making an award on RQ45502 to The James
B. Oswald Company in the amount not-to-exceed $834,650.00 for
professional employee benefits consultant services for the period
10/15/2019 - 4/15/2023; authorizing the County Executive to execute
the contract and all other documents consistent with said award and
this Resolution; and declaring the necessity that this Resolution become
immediately effective. [See page 124]

6. MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS
7. ADJOURNMENT

*Complimentary parking for the public is available in the attached garage at 900
Prospect. A skywalk extends from the garage to provide additional entry to the Council
Chambers from the 5th floor parking level of the garage. Please see the Clerk to obtain a
complimentary parking pass.
**Council Chambers is equipped with a hearing assistance system. If needed, please see
the Clerk to obtain a receiver.
Page 2 of 2
Page 2 of 125

 MINUTES
CUYAHOGA COUNTY HUMAN RESOURCES, APPOINTMENTS & EQUITY
COMMITTEE MEETING
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2019
CUYAHOGA COUNTY ADMINISTRATIVE HEADQUARTERS
C. ELLEN CONNALLY COUNCIL CHAMBERS – 4TH FLOOR
10:00 AM
1. CALL TO ORDER
Chairwoman Brown called the meeting to order at 10:10 a.m.
2. ROLL CALL
Ms. Brown asked Assistant Deputy Clerk Johnson to call the roll. Committee
members Brown, Gallagher, Jones, Miller and Conwell were in attendance and a
quorum was determined.
3. PUBLIC COMMENT
There were no public comments given.
4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES FROM THE SEPTEMBER 17, 2019 MEETING
A motion was made by Ms. Brown, seconded by Mr. Jones and approved by
unanimous vote to approve the minutes from the September 17, 2019 meeting.
5. MATTERS REFERRED TO COMMITTEE
a)

R2019-0212: A Resolution adopting various changes to the Cuyahoga
County Non-bargaining Classification Plan, and declaring the necessity
that this Resolution become immediately effective.

Page 1 of 3
Page 3 of 125

 Mr. Albert Bouchahine, Manager of Classification and Compensation for the
Personnel Review Commission; addressed the Committee regarding Resolution
No. R2019-0212. Discussion ensued.
Committee members asked questions of Mr. Bouchahine pertaining to the item,
which he answered accordingly.
A motion was then made by Mr. Miller seconded by Ms. Conwell and approved by
unanimous vote to amend Resolution No. R2019-0212 by deleting “Exhibit Q”.
On a motion by Ms. Brown with a second by Mr. Miller, Resolution No. R20190212 was considered and approved by unanimous vote to be referred to the full
Council agenda for second reading, as amended.
b)

R2019-0215: A Resolution confirming the County Executive’s
appointment of Natasha Davis to serve on the Cuyahoga County
Division of Children and Family Services Advisory Board for an
unexpired term ending 2/28/2023, and declaring the necessity that this
Resolution become immediately effective.

Ms. Michele Pomerantz, Director of Regional Collaboration; addressed the
Committee regarding Resolution No. R2019-0215. Discussion ensued.
Committee members asked questions of Ms. Pomerantz pertaining to the item,
which she answered accordingly.
Ms. Natasha Davis addressed the Committee regarding her nomination to serve on
the Cuyahoga County Division of Children and Family Services Advisory Board.
Discussion ensued.
Committee members asked questions of Ms. Davis pertaining to her experience,
expertise and qualifications, which she answered accordingly.
On a motion by Ms. Brown with a second by Mr. Jones, Resolution No. R2019-0215
was considered and approved by unanimous vote to be referred to the full Council
agenda with a recommendation for passage under second reading suspension of
the rules.
Ms. Brown, Mr. Jones, Mr. Miller, Mr. Gallagher and Ms. Conwell requested to
have their names added as co-sponsors to the legislation.
c)

R2019-0216: A Resolution confirming the County Executive’s
appointment of Bernardo F. Moreno to serve on The MetroHealth
System Board of Trustees for an unexpired term ending 3/4/2025, and

Page 2 of 3
Page 4 of 125

 declaring the necessity that this Resolution become immediately
effective.
Ms. Pomerantz addressed the Committee regarding Resolution No. R2019-0216.
Discussion ensued.
Committee members asked questions of Ms. Pomerantz pertaining to the item,
which she answered accordingly.
In lieu of his attendance, Mr. Bernardo F. Moreno submitted a written statement
to the Committee regarding his nomination to serve on The MetroHealth System
Board of Trustees.
On a motion by Ms. Brown with a second by Mr. Gallagher, Resolution No. R20190216 was considered and approved by unanimous vote to be referred to the full
Council agenda with a recommendation for passage under second reading
suspension of the rules.
6. MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS
There was no miscellaneous business.
7. ADJOURNMENT
With no further business to discuss, Chairwoman Brown adjourned the meeting at
10:30 a.m.

Page 3 of 3
Page 5 of 125

 County Council of Cuyahoga County, Ohio
Resolution No. R2019-0225
Sponsored by: County Executive
Budish

A Resolution confirming the County
Executive’s appointment of Megan L. Van
Voorhis to serve on the Alcohol, Drug
Addiction and Mental Health Services Board
of Cuyahoga County for an unexpired term
ending 6/30/2020, and declaring the
necessity that this Resolution become
immediately effective.

WHEREAS, Ohio Revised Code Chapter 340-02 establishes the Alcohol, Drug
Addiction and Mental Health Services Board of Cuyahoga County; and
WHEREAS, the Alcohol, Drug Addiction and Mental Health Services Board of
Cuyahoga County is responsible for planning, funding and monitoring of public
mental health and alcohol and other drug addiction services delivered to the residents
of Cuyahoga County; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code Section 340.02, the Alcohol,
Drug Addiction and Mental Health Services Board of Cuyahoga County shall consist
of eighteen (18) appointed members; and
WHEREAS, members of the Alcohol, Drug Addiction and Mental Health
Services Board of Cuyahoga County shall be appointed to serve a four-year term; and
WHEREAS, the Cuyahoga County Charter Section 6.04, entitled Special Boards
and Commissions, states that “[w]hen general law or any agreement with another
public agency or court order provides for appointment of members of a special board
or commission or other agency by the board of county commissioners, such
appointment shall be made by the County Executive, subject to confirmation by the
Council,”; and
WHEREAS, the County Executive has nominated Megan L. Van Voorhis
(replacing Cassi Handler) to serve on the Alcohol, Drug Addiction and Mental Health
Services Board for an unexpired term ending 6/30/2020; and
WHEREAS, this Council by a vote of at least eight (8) members determines that
it is necessary that this Resolution become immediately effective in order that Charter
requirements can be complied with and critical services provides by Cuyahoga
County can continue and to provide for the usual, daily operation of a County Board.

Page 6 of 125

1

 NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COUNTY COUNCIL OF
CUYAHOGA COUNTY, OHIO:
SECTION 1. That the Cuyahoga County Council hereby confirms the County
Executive’s appointment of Megan L. Van Voorhis to serve on the Alcohol, Drug
Addiction and Mental Health Services Board of Cuyahoga County for an unexpired
term ending 6/30/2020.
SECTION 2. It is necessary that this Resolution become immediately effective
for the usual daily operation of the County; the preservation of public peace, health,
or safety in the County; and any additional reasons set forth in the preamble.
Provided that this Resolution receives the affirmative vote of at least eight members
of Council, this Resolution shall become immediately effective.
SECTION 3. It is found and determined that all formal actions of this Council
concerning and relating to the adoption of this Resolution were adopted in an open
meeting of the Council, and that all deliberations of this Council and of any of its
committees that resulted in such formal action were in meetings open to the public, in
compliance with all legal requirements, including Section 121.22 of the Ohio Revised
Code.

On a motion by __________, seconded by _________, the foregoing Resolution was
duly adopted.
Yeas:
Nays:

_________________________
County Council President

__________
Date

_________________________
Clerk of Council

__________
Date

First Reading/Referred to Committee: October 8, 2019
Committee(s) Assigned: Human Resources, Appointments & Equity
Journal ______________
_______________, 20__

Page 7 of 125

2

  
 

Cuyahoga County
Together We Th rive

 

Armond Budish
Cuyahoga County Executive

 

September 30, 2019

Dan Brady, President 
Cuyahoga County Council
2079 E. Ninth Street, 8th Floor-
Cleveland, OH 44115 

Re: uyahoga ountv Alcohol, Drua Addiction 8: Men tel Health Services Board

 

Dear President Brady:

I am pleased to nominate the following individual for appointment to the Cuyahoga County
Alcohol, Drug Addiction 8: Mental Health Services Board Board:

0 Megan L. Van Voorhis, unexpired term ending 6/30/2020 (replacing Cassi
Handler] 

The ADAMHS Board is authorized by Section 340.02 of the Ohio Revised Code. The Board
consists of 18 members, 10 of whom are appointed by the Executive, subject to Council
confirmation, and 8 of whom are appointed by the Ohio Department of Alcohol Drug
Addiction Services. The ADAMHS Board?s mission is to promote and enhance the quality of
life of Cuyahoga County residents through a commitment to excellence in mental health,
alcohol, drug, and other addiction services.

There was one additional candidate on file that applied for this position.
Thank you for your consideration ofthis appointment. Should you or any ofyour 
colleagues have any questions, please feel free to contact Michele Pomerantz in my office at 

216-443-7125.

Sincerely,



Armond Budish
Cuyahoga County Executive

 

2079 East Ninth Street Cieveiand, Ohio 44115 216-443-7178 wwcuyahogacountyus
Page 8 of 125

Meian L. Van Voorhis I

 

PRESIDENT and CEO

 

Mission-driven arts leader with nearly two decades of experience working to strengthen and advance arts and
culture as a partner in community progress. Significant experience with:

 

x/ Business strategy and planning x/ Prugram development
a/ Cross-sector relationship building Audience development
Grassroots organizing Grantrnaking
w/ Advocacy campaigning Financial management
Public policy v? Fundraising
- x/ Government relations Leadership development
Research case-making Marketing and communications
x/ Education training v/ Board development relations
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

 

Arts Cleveland (formerly Community Partnership for Arts and Culture) I 2003-Present
A nonprofit arts and culture service organization dedicated to advancing arts and culture in Cleveland and
Cuyahoga County.

President and CEO January 2018?Present

Kev Achievements

. Launched a new strategic plan informed by research, community dialogues and key-person interviews.

. Led the organization through a successful re-branding effort, resulting in a new name, logo, tagline and
messaging architecture.

. Spearheaded an upgrade to the Public Officials Recognition Breakfast to expand the event?s influence.

- Released Elevating the Influence of Arts Culture: A Cleveland Playbook documenting Arts Cleveland?s
efforts to stabilize the arts and culture sector in Cleveland and facilitate cross-sector partnerships.

Chief Operating Officer I July 2012-December 2017

Key Achievements

- Led the development of the organization?s 2013-2016 strategic plan in conjunction with Board of Trustees,
CEO and staff.

- Testified before Cleveland City Council in support of an admissions tax exemption for small live music
venues, which was ultimately adopted.

- Served as a campaign sub?committee chair for the effort to renew a Cuyahoga County excise tax that
provides support for the county?s cultural sector, securing passage with a 75% voter approval rating.

- Spearheaded efforts to position the arts and culture sector in relationship to the region?s health, human
services and safety sectors.

Page 9 of 125

 

 

Vice President July 2006-June 2012

Key Achievements
- Worked to pass a cigarette excise tax dedicated to support Cuyahoga County?s arts and culture sector.
- Consulted on the development of Cuyahoga County?s first regional arts and cultural district.

. Led the development of the Collaborative Marketing Database, a project designed to improve the direct
marketing efforts of the region?s major arts and cultural institutions.

- Oversaw the development of a position paper and two conferences connecting the arts and community
development fields.

. Spearheaded the development of MyCreativeCompass.org (an online resource center for individual artists)
and a $500,000 fellowship program (Creative Workforce Fellowship).

Director of Research and Business Practices January 2004-June 2006

Key Achievements
- Led the development of an occupational study and arts and cultural economic impact study.

- Provided leadership, guidance and support for the region?s small business association and destination
marketing agency to develop arts and culture initiatives within their respective organizations. -

- Supported the development and implementation of two new public arts and cultural funding programs.
Assistant Director of Programsand Services May 2003-December2003

Kev Achievements
-Staffed a blue- ribbon panel commissioned by the Cuyahoga County Commissioners to develop funding
models for the distribution of local public sector funding for arts and culture.

. Developed, in partnership with the president and CEO, the Arts and Culture Roundtable, a convening series
to connect arts and culture professionals around issues of common cause.

- Developed the curriculum for the Artist as an Entrepreneur lnstitute,-a program offered in the Cleveland area
for 16 years and licensed by organizations in three states.

BALDWIN-WALLACE UNIVERSITY April 2007 - March 2013
Baldwin Wallace University is a 4?year private, coeducational, liberal arts college in Berea, Ohio, USA.
Adjunct Faculty April 2007 - March 2013

Key Achievements
- Provided instruction on current issues in arts management, business and strategic pianning, and program
development to undergraduate students.

 

EDUCATION 8: PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT

 

Master of Business Administration 2003
Case Western Reserve University - Weatherhead Schooi of Management

Bachelor of Fine Arts, Magna Cum Laude with Distinction'l 1998
The Ohio State University

Racial Equity Institute 2017

Page 10 of 125

 

 

 

AWARDS HONORS

 

Crain?s Cleveland Business 40 under 40 2014

Holmes Fellow in Regional Economic Development 2003

 

VOLUNTEER EXPERIENCE

 

Ohio Citizens for the Arts 2018 Present
Trustee

Mental Health Addiction Advocacy Coalition 2015 Present 
Trustee and Chair, Northeast Hub Steering Committee

westshore Montessori School July 2008 - June 2014
President - 2009-2013; Treasurer 2012-2014

Village Capital Corporation 2018 - Present
Member - Placemaking Advisory Committee

The Metrohealth system 2015 Present
Member Arts in Medicine Advisory Committee

Page 11 of 125

 

County Council of Cuyahoga County, Ohio
Resolution No. R2019-0234
Sponsored by: Councilmember
Brown on behalf of Cuyahoga
County Personnel Review
Commission

A Resolution adopting various changes to
the Cuyahoga County Non-bargaining
Classification Plan, and declaring the
necessity that this Resolution become
immediately effective.

WHEREAS, Section 9.03 of the Charter of Cuyahoga County states that the
Cuyahoga County Personnel Review Commission shall administer a clear,
countywide classification and salary administration system for technical, specialist,
administrative and clerical functions with a limited number of broad pay ranges
within each classification; and
WHEREAS, the Personnel Review Commission submitted several proposed
changes to the Cuyahoga County Non-bargaining Classification Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Personnel Review Commission considered this matter and has
undergone significant review, evaluation and modification of such submitted changes
to the Cuyahoga County Non-bargaining Classification Plan; and
WHEREAS, on October 2, 2019, the Personnel Review Commission met and
recommended the classification changes (attached hereto as Exhibits A through L)
and recommended to County Council the formal adoption and implementation of the
attached changes; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary that this Resolution become immediately effective in
order that critical services provided by Cuyahoga County can continue and to provide
for the usual, daily operation of a County entity.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COUNTY COUNCIL OF
CUYAHOGA COUNTY, OHIO:
SECTION 1. That the Cuyahoga County Council hereby adopts the following
changes to the Cuyahoga County Non-bargaining Classification Plan:
Modifications of the following Classifications: (See attached Classification
Specifications)

Page 12 of 125

 Proposed Revised Classifications:
Exhibit A:

Class Title:
Communications Specialist
Class Number: 10151
Pay Grade:
11A/Exempt (No change)
* PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised in 2012.
The essential job functions, language, formatting, and minimum
qualifications were updated. No change to pay grade or FLSA
status.

Exhibit B:

Class Title:
Construction Technician
Class Number: 18011
Pay Grade:
4A/Non-Exempt (No change)
* PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised in 2012.
The essential job functions, minimum qualifications, language, and
formatting were updated. No change to pay grade or FLSA status.

Exhibit C:

Class Title:
Forensic Photographer
Class Number: 12211
Pay Grade:
6A/Non-Exempt (No change)
* PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised in 2014.
The essential job functions, language, formatting, and minimum
qualifications were updated. No change to pay grade or FLSA
status.

Exhibit D:

Class Title:
Laboratory Technician-Toxicology
Class Number: 12191
Pay Grade:
5A/Non-Exempt (No change)
* PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised in 2014.
The essential job functions, language, formatting, minimum
qualifications, physical requirement and environmental
adaptability were updated. No change to pay grade or FLSA
status.

Exhibit E:

Class Title: Manager, Fleet Services
Class Number: 15073
Pay Grade:
13A/Exempt (No change)
* PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised on
2/13/2019. The essential job functions, minimum qualifications,
language, and formatting were updated to be consistent with the
lower level position. NO change to pay grade or FLSA status.

Exhibit F:

Class Title:
Medical Records Technician
Class Number: 17021
Pay Grade:
6A/Non-Exempt (No change)

Page 13 of 125

 * PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised in 2019.
The Education and experience requirements were updated. No
change to pay grade or FLSA status.
Exhibit G:

Class Title:
Residential/Agricultural Appraisal Coordinator
Class Number: 20011
Pay Grade:
13A/Exempt (No change)
* PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised in 2012.
The language, and formatting were updated. No change to pay
grade or FLSA status.

Exhibit H:

Class Title:
Senior Printing Coordinator (Manager Print
Production)
Class Number: 15162
Pay Grade:
11A/Exempt (No change)
* PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised in 2016.
The title, essential job functions, minimum qualifications, language
and formatting were updated. No change to pay grade or FLSA
status.

Exhibit I:

Class Title:
Senior Supervisor, Nursing
Class Number: 17032
Pay Grade:
12A/Exempt (No change)
* PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised in 2015.
The essential job functions, language, and formatting were
updated. No change to pay grade or FLSA status.

Exhibit J:

Class Title:
Supervisor, Drug Chemistry Laboratory
Class Number: 12264
Pay Grade:
17A/Exempt (No change)
* PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised in 2014.
The essential job functions, language, and formatting were
updated. No change to pay grade or FLSA status.

Exhibit K:

Class Title:
Supervisor, Fleet Services
Class Number: 15072
Pay Grade:
11A/Exempt (No change)
* PRC routine maintenance. Classification was last revised in
2012. The essential job functions, minimum qualifications,
language and formatting were updated. No change to pay grade or
FLSA status.

Exhibit L:

Class Title:
Supervisor, Trace Evidence Laboratory
Class Number: 12274
Pay Grade:
17A/Exempt (No change)

Page 14 of 125

 * PRC routine maintenance. Classification was last revised in
2014. The essential job functions, minimum qualifications,
language and formatting were updated. No change to pay grade or
FLSA status.
SECTION 2. It is necessary that this Resolution become immediately effective
for the usual daily operation of the County; the preservation of public peace, health,
or safety in the County; and any additional reasons set forth in the preamble. Provided
that this Resolution receives the affirmative vote of at least eight members of Council,
it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon the earliest occurrence of any of
the following: (1) its approval by the County Executive through signature, (2) the
expiration of the time during which it may be disapproved by the County Executive
under Section 3.10(6) of the Cuyahoga County Charter, or (3) its passage by at least
eight members of Council after disapproval pursuant to Section 3.10(7) of the
Cuyahoga County Charter. Otherwise, it shall take effect and be in force from and
after the earliest period allowed by law.
SECTION 3. It is found and determined that all formal actions of this Council
relating to the adoption of this Resolution were adopted in an open meeting of the
Council, and that all deliberations of this Council and of any of its committees that
resulted in such formal action were in meetings open to the public, in compliance
with all legal requirements, including Section 121.22 of the Ohio Revised Code.
On a motion by __________, seconded by _________, the foregoing Resolution was
duly adopted.
Yeas:
Nays:

_________________________
County Council President

__________
Date

_________________________
County Executive

__________
Date

_________________________
Clerk of Council

__________
Date

Page 15 of 125

 First Reading/Referred to Committee: October 22, 2019
Committee(s) Assigned: Human Resources, Appointments & Equity
Journal ________
__________, 2019

Page 16 of 125

 CUYAHOGA COUNTY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Class Title: Communications Specialist Class Number: 10151
FLSA: Exempt Pay Grade: 11A
Dept: Communications Department lbw} 

 

 

Classification Function

The purpose of this classification is to write and develop internal and external communication collateral
for Cuyahoga County?s Communications Department.

Distinguishing Characteristics

This is a journey level classification with responsibility for creating, designing, and delivering public
relations, marketing, and informational materials. Employees at this level are expected to become fully
aware of operating procedures and policies of the assigned work unit. The incumbents receive immediate
supervision progressing to general supervision as experience is gained.

Essential Job Functions

The following duties are normal for this classification. These are not to be construed as exclusive
or all-inclusive. Other duties may be required and assigned.

40% 100/0

- Develops and writes internal and external communication collateral for Cuyahoga County's
Communications Department; develops communication collateral (including press releases.
newsletters, employee communications, web writing, blog posts, long-form articles, County business,
and various campaigns and social media posts); maintains relationships with subject matter experts
from different county departments, the media, and other outside sources; researches information to
prepare for writing stories using online, in?print, and authoritative sources; gathers input from relevant
stakeholders and subject matter experts for press release development, blog posts, and media;
reviews and analyzes data gathered from sources for content production; collaborates with all county
agencies to develop their communication strategies and tactics; develops online surveys to
understand the County and community's perspective on specific issues.

. 30% 10%

Proposes and develops ideas and strategies to enhance the County's public image; communicates
with media personnel regarding Cuyahoga County stories or press releases; monitors media
coverage via online resources and social media; drafts and/or pitches ideas for approval by the
Chief Communications Officer or Council; assists with creating speeches and presentations for
county departments and directors.

20% 10%

- Reviews, coordinates, and responds to public records requests for the Communications Department;
utilizes storage software to log and track requests; gathers materials and information to send in
response to requests; assists with public records audits by answering questions and providing
information.

10% 5%

. Manages the bidding process for Communication Department contracts; selects vendors based on
responses to reviews bids to select most appropriate vendor; sends contracts to the
Office of Procurement and Diversity; enters information into enterprise information platform and
procurement system; processes payments for purchases.

Effective Date: 04.10.2012
Last Modi?ed: 04.10.2012

Page 17 of 125

Communications Specialist

Minimum Training and Experience Required to Perform Essential Job Functions

. Bachelor?s degree in public relations, communications or related field with three (3) years of public
relations, marketing communications, orjournalism experience; or any equivalent combination of
education, training and experience.

Additional Requirements

. No special license or certification is required.

Minimum Physical and Mental Abilities Required to Perform Essential Job Functions

Physical Requirements

. Ability to operate a variety of automated office machines including computer, copier, and telephone.

Supervisory Responsibilities

. No supervisory responsibilities.

Mathematical Ability

. Ability to add, subtract, multiply, and divide, and calculate decimals and percentages.

Language Ability Interpersonal Communication

Requires the ability to perform mid-level data analysis including the ability to audit, deduce, assess,
conclude, and appraise. Requires discretion in determining and referencing such to established criteria
to define consequences and develop alternatives.

. Requires excellent written and superior verbal communication skills.

. Ability to comprehend a variety of informational documents including and annual reports,
editorials, brochures, news segments, spreadsheets, print requests, design files, and other reports

and documents.

0 Ability to comprehend a variety of reference books and manuals including Employee Handbook,
agency policies and procedures manual, and County branding standards.

. Ability to prepare presentations, annual reports, newsletters, brochures, editorials, news releases,
web pages, design files, correspondence and other job-related documents using prescribed format
and conforming to all rules of punctuation, grammar, diction, and style.

. Ability to convince and influence others, to record and deliver information, to explain procedures, and
to follow instructions.

. Ability to use and interpret public relations, media, and marketing terminology and language.

. Ability to communicate with director, managers, coworkers, other County employees, and the public.
Environmental Adaptability

. Work is typically performed in an office environment.

Effective Date: 04.10.2012
Last Modi?ed: 04.10.2012

Page 18 of 125

Communications Specialist

Cuyahoga County is an Equat Opportunity Employer. in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the
County will provide reasonabte accommodations to qualified individuals with disabilities and encourages both
prospective employees and incumbents to discuss potential accommodations with the employer.

Effective Date: 04.10.2012
Last Modi?ed: 04.10.2012

Page 19 of 125

CUYAHOGA COUNTY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Class Title: Construction Technician Class Number: 18011
FLSA: Non-Exempt Pay Grade: 4A
Dept: Public Works E)

 

 

Classification Function

The purpose of this classification is to inspect various phases of construction to ensure that the project
complies with contractual plans and specifications.

Distinguishing Characteristics

This is an entry-level technical classification with responsibility for inspecting phases of construction for
compliance with plans and specifications. Positions in this class work under general guidance and
supervision and perform recurring tasks using standard methods and techniques. This classification
works under a framework of well-defined policies, procedures. and regulations. This position has no
supervisory responsibilities.

Essential Job Functions

The following duties are normal for this classification. These are not to be construed as exclusive
or all-inclusive. Other duties may be required and assigned.

75% 10%
Inspects various phases of construction to ensure that the project complies with contractual plans
and specifications; inspects and records project information (eg. type and quality of work, progress
and incident pictures, pay item quantities, construction methods, material inspection reports, etc);
provides daily reports of project observations and work completed to project lead for review; ensures
projects are being completed according to local, State. and Federal standards; ensures that all
relevant local, State, and Federal safety policies and procedures are being observed; reviews project
blueprints, specifications. and contracts to verify material quantities and calculations; collects material
samples to be delivered off?site for physical testing; calculates material quantities used on project;
observes and records non-satisfactory, defective, or incomplete work for project finalization.

15% 5%
Serves as a liaison to the public; assures safety practices are being met; answers questions and
addresses concerns related to the construction project; works with angry/dissatisfied residents to
resolve issues; assists with establishing safe pedestrian and vehicle traffic routes through or around
the construction project site.

10% 50/0
Assists with various administrative support functions; records daily project site attendance; verifies
overtime reports submitted by contractors; submits orders for field office supplies; submits annual
field office inventory report.

Experience Required to Perform Essential Job Functions

High school diploma or equivalent with two (2) years of construction or related experience; or any
equivalent combination of education, training, and experience.

Valid driver?s license and proof of automobile insurance is required.

Effective Date: 07.10.2012
Last Modi?ed: 07.10.2012

Page 20 of 125

Construction Technician

Additional Requirements

0 No special license or certification is required.

Minimum Physical and Mental Abilities Required to Perform Essential Job Functions
Physical Requirements

0 Ability to operate a variety of survey tools and equipment and automated office machines including
computers and peripheral equipment.

Supervisory Responsibilities
. No supervisory responsibilities.
Mathematical Ability

. Ability to add, subtract, multiply, divide, calculate decimals and percentages, and perform basic
algebra and geometry.

Language Ability 8: Interpersonal Communication

. Ability to perform basic levei of data analysis including the ability to review, classify, categorize, prioritize
and/or reference data, statutes and/or guidelines and/or group, rank, investigate and problem solve.
Requires discretion in determining and referencing such to established standards to recognize
interactive effects and relationships.

0 Ability to comprehend a variety of informational documents including timesheets, invoices,
engineering plans and specifications, delivery tickets, forms, and work orders.

Ability to comprehend a variety of reference books and manuals including departmental manuals, the
Employee Handbook, reference manuals, OSHA rules and standards, specifications, and standards.

. Ability to prepare calculations, records of samples, inepection reports, signage summary, force
account, notes in field book, and otherjob related documents using prescribed format and conforming
to all rules of punctuation, grammar, diction, and style.

. Ability to record and deliver information, to explain procedures, and to follow instructions.

Ability to develop and maintain effective working relationships with a variety of individuals within and
outside the department.

. Ability to use and interpret construction related terminology and language.

. Ability to communicate with supervisor, consultants, engineers, co-workers, and the general public.
Environmental Adaptability

. Work is typically performed in an office environment and at a construction project site.

. Work may involve exposure to temperature and weather extremes, dust, wetness or humidity, noise
extremes, machinery, and traffic hazards.

Effective Date: 07.10.2012
Last Modi?ed: 07.10.2012

Page 21 of 125

Construction Technician

Cuyahoga County is an Equal Opportunity Employer. ln compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the
County will provide reasonable accommodations to qualified individuals with disabilities and encourages both
prospective employees and incumbents to discuss potential accommodations with the employer.

Effective Date: 07.10.2012
Last Modi?ed: 07.10.2012

Page 22 of 125

CUYAHOGA COUNTY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Class Title: Forensic Photographer Class Number: 12211
FLSA: Non-Exempt Pay Grade: 6A
Dept: Medical Examiner?s Office C,

 

 

Classification Function

The purpose of this classification is to photograph a variety of scenes, subjects, and materials including
physical evidence provided by law enforcement and to process all image files for investigative, scientific,
and court presentation purposes.

Distinguishing Characteristics

This is an entry-level classification working under general supervision of the Chief Forensic
Photographer. Positions in this class independently perform recurring, well?precedented tasks using
standard methods and techniques. Incumbents establish and maintain quality control and ensure proper
preservation and documentation of photographs. Employees receive instruction or assistance as new or
unusual situations arise and are expected to become/remain up-to?date regarding methods, protocols,
procedures, and applicable regulations. Position is considered essential and remains on-call 24 hours a
day and during holidays and County closures.

Essential Job Functions

The following duties are normal for this classification. These are not to be construed as exclusive
or all-inclusive. Other duties may be required and asSigned.

50% 10%
. Photographs a variety of subjects and materials including crime scenes, decedents, autopsies,
clothing, property, specimen, vehicles, or other physical evidence; documents photographic
processes and procedures; follows chain of custody with photographic evidence as necessary.

30% 10%

. Processes images in multiple file types using a wide variety of software tools for investigative,
scientific, and court presentation purposes; processes raw image files from digital media cards;
processes property or digital media cards for other departments; copies files to digital media storage
devices (optical discs, USBs, etc.) and distributes upon request; prints photographs; uses a scanner
to digitize film, prints, and other copy work; assists with preparation and presentation of images for
reports and exhibits; prepares and maintains digital files in accordance with applicable policies and
procedures.

10% 5%
. Performs miscellaneous responsibilities related to photography laboratory; cleans and maintains
equipment; tracks inventory and supplies.

10% 5%

Performs related administrative responsibilities; prepares various reports, records, and other
documents; responds to emails and phone calls; attends various trainings and meetings; keeps
abreast of current trends and technological developments in the field; conducts tours of photography
unit; instructs interns and provides demonstrations.

Effective Date: 07.28.2014
Last Modi?ed: 07.28.2014

Page 23 of 125

Forensic Photographer

Minimum Training and Experience Required to Perform Essential Job Functions

A bachelor's degree in photography or related field with one (1) year of experience performing digital
and conventional photography in a studio or laboratory setting; or an equivalent combination of
education. training, and experience.

Valid Ohio driver's license, proof of automobile insurance, and a vehicle.

Additional Requirements

Adobe Photoshop, Extensis Portfolio, and Camera RAW are required. Additional competencies in
other photo software applications as needed.

Completion of FEMA ICS 100, 200, and 700 courses is required within probationary period (180
days).

Minimum Physical and Mental Abilities Required to Perform Essential Job Functions

Physical Requirements

Ability to operate a variety of automated office machines including computer and copier.

Ability to operate a variety of photographic equipment including digital cameras, tripods, strobes.
scanners, microscopes, and projectors.

Physical abilities to perform essential functions.

Supervisory Responsibilities

No supervisory responsibilities.

Mathematical Ability

Ability to add, subtract, multiply, divide, and calculate decimals and percentages.

Language Ability Interpersonal Communication

Requires the ability to perform basic level of data analysis including the ability to review, classify,
categorize, prioritize andIor reference data, statutes and/or guidelines and/or group, rank, investigate,
and problem solve. Requires discretion in determining and referencing established standards to
recognize interactive effects and relationships.

Ability to comprehend a variety of informational documents including digital media cards, photograph
orders, diagrams, reports, film, image catalogues, list of Mugshots required, list of autopsied cases,
materials safety data sheets, and receiving book.

Ability to comprehend a variety of reference books and manuals including Quality Assurance Manual,
standard operating procedures, software and hardware manuals, safety manuals, Materials Safety
Data sheets, Training Manual, publications, equipment manuals, reference books, journals, and
employee handbook.

Effective Date: 07.28.2014
Last Modi?ed: 07.28.2014

Page 24 of 125

Forensic Photographer

Ability to prepare illustrations, optical discs, digital images, photographic prints. scanned image files,
PowerPoint presentations, standard operating procedures, and other job related documents using
prescribed format and conforming to all rules of punctuation, grammar, diction, and style.

Ability to record and deliver information, to explain procedures, to follow instructions, and to meet
deadHnes.

Ability to use and interpret basic medical terminology and language.

Ability to communicate and to develop and maintain effective working relationships with other
departmental employees, supervisor, police department personnel, attorneys, and clerical staff.

Environmental Adaptability

Work is typically performed in an office/laboratory environment.

Work may involve exposure to strong odors, toxic agents, bodily fluids, electrical currents, and
laboratory equipment/machinery. Requires periodic on-site investigations that may occur in an indoor
or outside in changing locations, environments and conditions and at all times of day and night and
year. Conditions could include adverse weather or unsanitary environments and may require the use
of personal protective equipment, especially in disaster situations.

Cuyahoga County is an Equal Opportunity Employer. in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the
County will provide reasonable accommodations to qualified individuals with disabilities and encourages both
prospective employees and incumbents to discuss potential accommodations with the employer.

Effective Date: 07.28.2014
Last Modi?ed: 07.28.2014

Page 25 of 125

CUYAHOGA COUNTY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Class Title: Laboratory Technician? Toxicology Class Number: 12191
FLSA: Non?Exempt Pa 1 Grade: 5A
Dept: Medical Examiner's Office EAL ?bi I)

 

 

 

Classification Function

The purpose of this classification is to facilitate work in the toxicology laboratory by performing a variety
of administrative, routine testing, laboratory cleaning, supply disposal, and restocking responsibilities.

Distinguishing Characteristics

This is an entry level classification. Employees in this class initially receive immediate supervision then
progressing to general supervision as the incumbents become able to work independently to perform the
full range of duties associated with this classification. Assignments are limited in scope, contain fairly
routine tasks, and are performed within a procedural framework established by higher level employees.
This position does not supervise but may instruct or train other employees.

Essential Job Functions

The following duties are normal for this classification. These are not to be construed as exclusive
or all-inclusive. Other duties may be required and assigned.

35% 10%

. Receives, sorts, and stores physical evidence submitted by law enforcement agencies and forensic
pathologists; verifies accuracy of evidence submission forms; enters submitted items into tracking
system; maintains chain of custody; performs variety of laboratory functions and/or prepares testing
on evidence; releases eVidence to appropriate agency upon completion of analysis; monitors transfer
of evidence and submission release records; analyzes carboxyhemoglobin for STAT and routine
determinations using appropriate analytical techniques and instrumentation; performsiassists
Forensic Scientists with other routine testing.

20% 10%
. Ensures policies and procedures relative to storage and disposal of submitted evidence; manages
proper storage of submitted evidence in process of examination in the laboratory; maintains
integrity of evidence storage rooms, refrigerators, and freezers; prepares and verifies evidence and
packaging before transferring to offsite storage; transports and retrieves evidence from offsite
storage facility as needed; verifies and documents temperatures of evidence storage areas as
required by forensic accreditation boards, associations, and laboratory policies.

15% 5%

. Enters case results in the information management system based on a testing hierarchy; assists with
locating specimens for analysis; prepares specimen collection tubes for Receiving Department and
Autopsy Room; acts as the primary person responsible for preparing shipping packages and sending
cases out to reference laboratories for testing.

15% 5%

. Assists laboratory staff with cleaning of the laboratory, washing glassware and miscellaneous duties
as necessary; maintains laboratory cleanliness by wiping counter surfaces, fume hoods leans and
putting away glassware; assists the Quality Assurance Officer and other laboratory staff with walk in
refrigerator/freezer organization and evidence sealing; organizes, maintains, and disposes of
specimens in the refrigerator and freezer; replaces full biohazard/sharps containers with clean ones

Effective Date: 07.28.2014
Last Modi?ed: 07.28.2014

Page 26 of 125

Laboratory Technician

and maintains laboratory cleanliness; seals and removes biohazard trash, as needed; provides clean
unused biohazard, sharps, and glass trash boxes/containers in Extraction and Instrument rooms.

10% 50/0

. Prepares a variety of submission, inventory and release documentation; operates computer system,
entering data and records into computer system; prepares paper and electronic inventories; prepares
evidence release forms; releases evidence to law enforcement agencies, courts, prosecutor?s office,
and other submitting agencies at appropriate times; obtains necessary signatures on release
documents; assists with maintenance of records related to roomlrefrigerator/freezer temperature(s)
and hood flow velocity; provides administrative and technical assistance; assists with copying and
filing of data; assists with putting away and organizing laboratory supplies.

5% 2%
. Testifies in court regarding evidence chain of custody issues as required; trains and instructs other
employees and interns on performance of Laboratory Technician duties.

Minimum Training and Experience Required to Perform Essential Job Functions

High school diploma or equivalent and two (2) years experience in performing clerical and inventory
control duties; or any equivalent combination of education, training, and experience.

Additional Requirements

0 Completion of FEMA ICS 100, 200. and 700 courses is required within probationary period (180
days).

Minimum Physical and Mental Abilities Required to Perform Essential Job Functions

Physical Requirements

. Ability to operate a variety of automated office machines including computers and peripheral
equipment; ability to use a limited variety of automated laboratory machines and laboratory tools and
supplies.

. Ability to stand and walk for a prolonged period of time and ability to push, pull, or lift up to 20 lbs.

Supervisory Responsibilities

. No supervisory responsibilities.

Mathematical Ability

. Ability to add, subtract, multiply, divide, and calculate percentages and decimals.

Language Ability Interpersonal Communication

. Requires the ability to perform basic level of data analysis including the ability to review, classify,
categorize, prioritize and/or reference data, statutes, and/or guidelines and/or group, rank,
investigate. and problem solve. Requires discretion in determining and referencing established

standards to recognize interactive effects and relationships.

0 Demonstrated technical proficiency and theoretical knowledge sufficient to perform the laboratory
functions assigned.

Effective Date: 07.28.2014
Last Modi?ed: 07.28.2014

Page 27 of 125

Laboratory Technician

Ability to comprehend a variety of informational documents including evidence submission and
release forms, paper and electronic inventories, chain of custody forms, toxicology medicine reports,
and autopsy submission forms.

Ability to comprehend a variety of reference books and manuals including Employee Handbook,
personnel manuals, Assay Manual, Lab Quality Assurance Manual, and Standard Operating
Procedure manual.

Ability to prepare Evidence Submission, Release and Transfer documents, Log Books, paper and
electronic inventory records, and other job related documents using prescribed format and
conforming to all rules of punctuation, grammar, diction, and style.

Ability to record and deliver information, to explain procedures, and to follow instructions.

Ability to use and interpret basic legal and forensic terminology.

Ability to communicate with supervisor, family members of the deceased, funeral homes personnel,

law enforcement personnel, nursing home staff, and other departmental employees and
administrators.

Environmental Adaptability

Work is typically performed in an indoor environment.

Work will also involve entering and working in ?walk-in" refrigerator and freezer environments for short
periods of time.

Work may involve exposure to temperature extremes, strong odors, toxic/poisonous agents, and
disease/bodily fluids.

Cuyahoga County is an Equal Opportunity Employer. in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the
County will provide reasonable accommodations to qualified individuals with disabilities and encourages both
prospective employees and incumbents to discuss potential accommodations with the employer:

Effective Date: 07.28.2014
Last Modi?ed: 07.28.2014

Page 28 of 125

CUYAHOGA COUNTY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Class Title: Manager, Fleet Services Class Number: 15073
FLSA: Exempt Pay Grade: 13A
Dept: Public Works 

 

 

Classification Function

The purpose of this classification is to plan, oversee and coordinate all tasks related to the operation of
the fleet services, equipment, and related facilities for the Department of Public Works.

Distinguishing Characteristics

This is a management classification working under general supervision of the Chief Deputy 
Maintenance. This class works within a framework of policies, procedures, regulations, and laws and the
employee exercises discretion and judgment in developing strategic plans, goals and objectives, making
budget recommendations, directing operations and programs through subordinate supervisors and staff,
and evaluating effectiveness and implementing corrective changes. The class of Manager, Fleet Services
is distinguished from the class of Supervisor, Fleet Services in that the latter classification is limited to
overseeing activities primarily related to maintenance and repair and does not have responsibility for
budget management or ensuring the Fleet Services? overall efficiency.

Essential Job Functions

The following duties are normal for this classification. These are not to be construed as exclusive
or all-inclusive. Other duties may be required and assigned.

25% 10%

. Plans, oversees and directs the maintenance, repair, and overhaul of vehicles and heavy automotive
equipment; assesses and schedules work to be performed by vendors including recalls, warranty,
and insurancerepairs; defines scope of work and obtains quotes for contract services when
necessary; performs research for new and replacement vehicles and large capital equipment
purchaSes; reviews new equipment specifications; creates and executes the capital equipment
replacement schedule for all departments in the County; monitors and maintains inventory levels;
approves invoices; oversees preventative maintenance programs; keeps detailed records of
maintenance, repairs, and warranty information of all fleet vehicles and equipment.

250/0 100/0

. Supervises and directs the work of lower?level supervisors and other department staff; directs staff to
ensure work completion and maintenance of standards; plans, assigns, and reviews work; provides
training and instruction; evaluates employee performance; responds to employee questions,
concerns, and problems; approves employee timesheets and leave requests; prepares and reviews
documents related to payroll, timesheets, requests for leave and overtime; develops unit work plans
and work performance standards; monitors and provides for training needs; meets with employees
individually and as a unit; recommends personnel actions including selection, promotion, transfer,
discipline, or discharge.

20% 10%

. Oversees Operation, maintenance, and regulatory compliance of diesel and unleaded fuel delivery
systems; performs Bureau of Underground Storage Tank Regulations (BUSTR) inspections; updates
maintenance records; repairs above and below ground storage systems; maintains an updated and
active Spill Prevention Control and Countermeasure Program; oversees environmental reporting for
fleet and related equipment and materials; coordinates E-check reporting to Ohio EPA.

Established: 7(10/2012
Last Modi?ed: 2:?1 3/2019

Page 29 of 125

Fleet Services Manager

10% 5%

Participates in preparation of fleet department?s annual budget and oversees use; gathers and
analyzes operations and financial data regarding all facets of fleet operations; makes
recommendations regarding budget to fund operations and increase efficiency; prepares and reviews
labor and materials cost estimates for proposed fleet work; investigates. creates specifications, and
makes recommendations for the purchase of new equipment and modifications to existing equipment;
makes recommendations and oversees fleet services purchases including materials, parts,
equipment, and tools; records and provides charge back information to the fiscal division; prepares
purchase orders.

5% 2%
Assesses fleet services? effectiveness and efficiency; identifies best business practices; maintains
policies and procedures manual; assures safe work practices and compliance with all local, state,
and federal regulatory requirements; identifies and directs corrective actions; implements strategic
policy and administrative changes to maximize use of resources and achieve goals and objectives.

5% 2%
Directs and oversees various programs including the County Fuel Card program and County CPS
program; logs, tracks, and documents County vehicle license plates and maintains titles; oversees
auction and disposal of all obsolete County vehicles and equipment; manages repairs of the
Homeland security trailers for the Department of Justice Affairs.

10% 5%
Performs related administrative reSponsibiIities; prepares various reports, records, and other
documents; responds to emails and phone calls; attends various trainings and meetings; remains on-
call 24 hours a day to respond to emergency or urgent situations.

Minimum Training and Experience Required to Perform Essential Job Functions

Associate degree in business administration, industrial management, automotive technology, or
related field and six (6) years of auto mechanics experience; or an equivalent combination of
education, training, and experience.

Automotive Service Excellence (ASE) Master Automotive Technician Certification in auto mechanics
and Medium/Heavy Duty Truck; or equivalent.

Valid driver?s license and proof of automobile insurance.

Additional Requirements

Must obtain and maintain a Class Underground Storage Tank (UST) Operator Certification within
six (6) months of hire date.

Must obtain an EPA Section 609 MVAC Certification within six (6) months of hire date.

Minimum Physical and Mental Abilities Required to Perform Essential Job Functions

Physical Requirements

Ability to operate a variety of automated office machines including computer and copier.
Ability to operate various motor vehicles including automobiles, vans, and pick-up trucks.
Ability to utilize automobile diagnostic and maintenance equipment, tools, and supplies.

Established: 7i10i'2012
Last Modi?ed: 2i13f2019

Page 30 of 125

Fleet Services Manager

Ability to crawl, crouch, bend, twist, and lift, push, or pull up to 50lbs.

Supervisory Responsibilities

Ability to assign, review, plan and coordinate the work of other employees and to maintain standards.
Ability to provide instruction and training to other employees.

Ability to solve and act on employee problems.

Ability to recommend the transfer, selection, evaluation, or promotion of employees.

Ability to recommend the discipline or discharge of employees.

Mathematical Ability

Ability to add, subtract, multiply, divide, and calculate decimals and percentages.

Language Ability Interpersonal Communication

Ability to perform mid-level data analysis including the ability to audit, deduce, assess, conclude and
appraise. Requires discretion in determining and referencing established criteria to define
consequences and develop alternatives.

Ability to comprehend a variety of informational documents including invoices, vehicle repair work
orders, preventative maintenance schedules, attendance reports, leave request forms, inventory
reports, drawings, forms, proposals, plans, certifications, and reports.

Ability to comprehend a variety of reference books and manuals including reference manuals, ORC,
ODOT manuals, policy manuals, service and repair manuals, union contracts, catalogs,
specifications, standards, guidelines, and codes.

Ability to prepare Council actions, contract modifications, certifications, memos, correspondence,
agreements, performance evaluations, grievance forms, inspections, reports, plans, estimates, and
other job-related documents using prescribed format and conforming to all rules of punctuation,
grammar, diction and style.

Ability to supervise, convince and influence others, to record and deliver information, to explain
procedures, to follow instructions.

Ability to develop and maintain effective working relationships with a variety of individuals within and
outside the Department.

Ability to use and interpret legal, mechanical, and budgeting terminology and language.

Ability to communicate with staff, department directors, vendors, suppliers, dealers, other County
employees, and the general public.

Environmental Adaptability

Work is typically performed in a maintenance garage environment.

Work may involve exposure to strong odors, smoke, electrical currents, noise extremes, vibrations,
and machinery.

Established: Ti10f2012
Last Modi?ed; 21312019

Page 31 of 125

Fleet Services Manager

Cuyahoga County is an Equal Opportunity Employer in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the
County will provide reasonable accommodations to qualified individuals with disabilities and encourages both
prospective employees and incumbents to discuss potential accommodations with the employer.

Established: 7l10l2012
Last Modi?ed: 2l13l2019

Page 32 of 125

CUYAHOGA COUNTY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Class Title: Medical Records Technician Class Number: 17021
FLSA: Non-Exempt Pay Grade: 6A
Dept: Health and Human Services 6 ?Lh'ihi'l- 

 

Classification Function

The purpose of this classification is to maintain and account for medical records, chart audits, discharge
records, storage of records, and current list of discharges in accordance with State and Federal
guidelines for certification and reimbursement.

Distinguishing Characteristics

This is an entry level classification that is responsible for maintaining medical records, chart audits, and
various other records. This classification works under a framework of well-defined procedures. This class
requires a limited exercise ofjudgment and consults with a supervisor as new or unusual situations arise.

Essential Job Functions

The following duties are normal for this classification._Th_es__e are not to be construed as exclusive
or all-inclusive. Other duties may be required and assigned.

- 60% 10%

. Maintains and accounts for medical records, chart audits, discharge records, storage of records,
and current list of discharges, in accordance with State and Federal guidelines for certification
and reimbursement; maintains charts; audits and analyzes charts; codes diagnoses; prepares
charts for admission and re-admission; maintains resident tickler file; prepares minimum data set
for annual update; maintains chart overflow; maintains discharge chart files; documents
deficiencies in patient charts; purges old records; maintains log of destroyed records; maintains
diagnoses index; safeguards the confidentiality of clinical records; organizes and closes?out
discharge charts; pulls files for nursing and other care giver staff.

40% 10%

. Performs related administrative duties; drafts policies and procedures for medical records and
maintains policy and procedure manuals; attends staff meetings, workshops, and seminars;
serves on various committees; acts as consultant on medical record keeping procedures and
problems; makes court appearances or represents agency in litigation when medical records are
subpoenaed for evidence; provides training in proper procedures for appropriate agency
personnel; assists in maintaining liaison between processing function and other functions within
agency to develop effective working relationship; gathers and analyzes raw statistical data to
compile into report form; develops reporting instruments such as forms, charts, and tables; makes
resident identification cards; manages medical supplies inventory.

Minimum Training and Experience Required to Perform Essential Job Functions

. High School Diploma or equivalent, and 1 year of electronic health records, medical documentation,
clerical, or administrative experience; or an equivalent combination of education, training, and
expenence.

. Certified Medical Billing and Coding Specialist, or an equivalent certification is required.

Additional Requirements for all levels

Effective Date: 1993
Last Modi?ed: 02.13.2019

Page 33 of 125

 

Medical Records Technician

. No special license or certification is required.

Minimum Physical and Mental Abilities Required to Perform Essential Job Functions

Physical Requirements

. Ability to operate a variety of automated office machines including computer and copier.

Supervisory Responsibilities

. No supervisory responsibilities.

Mathematical Ability

. Ability to add, subtract, multiply, divide and calculate decimals and percentages.

Language Ability Interpersonal Communication

. Requires the ability to perform basic level of data analysis including the ability to review, classify,
categorize, prioritize and/or reference data, statutes and/or guidelines and/or group, rank, investigate
and problem soive. Requires discretion in determining and referencing such to established standards

to recognize interactive effects and relationships.

. Ability to comprehend a variety of informational documents including patient records, minimum data
set (MDS), information request, and other reports and records.

. Ability to comprehend a variety of reference books and manuals including Employee Handbook, ICD-
Codes. OBRA 87 Manual, Medicare Manual, medical textbooks, and computer handbooks.

. Ability to prepare audit reports, patient records, diagnosis lists, admission and discharge registries
memos, correspondence, and other job?related documents using prescribed format and conforming
to all rules of punctuation, grammar, diction, and style.

. Ability to convince and influence others, to record and deliver information, to explain procedures, and
to follow instructions.

. Ability to use and interpret medical terminology and language.

. Ability to communicate effectively with physicians. nursing staff, social service personnel,
administrator, other County employees and the general public.

Environmental Adaptability

. Work is typically performed in an office environment.

Cuyahoga County is an Equal Opportunity Empioyer. in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the
County provide reasonable accommodations to qualified individuals with disabilities and encourages both
prospective employees and incumbents to discuss potentiai accommodations with the employer.

Effective Date: 1993
Last Modi?ed: 02.13.2019

Page 34 of 125

CUYAHOGA COUNTY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

Class Title: Residential/Agricultural Appraiser Coordinator Class Number: 20011
FLSA: Exempt Pay Grade: 13A
Dept: Fiscal Office 6% h, bH? 6

 

 

Classification Function

The purpose of this classification is to supervise, coordinate, and participate in residential,
condominium, and agricultural property annual maintenance and valuation appraisal for tax purposes.

Distinguishing Characteristics

This is a supervisor level classification with responsibility for supervising, coordinating, and performing
technical activities in the Real Estate Appraisal division of the County Fiscal Office. This class works
under general direction of the Manager, Residential/Agricultural Appraisal and receives direction from
management in the form of broad objectives or as new or unusual situations arise. The employee works
within a framework of established laws, regulations, policies, and procedures. Incumbents ensure that
responsibilities are completed in a timely manner and adhere to applicable standards and regulations.

Essential Job Functions

The following duties are normal for this classification. These are not to be construed as

exclusive or all-inclusive. Other duties may be required and assigned.

 

30% 10%

Supervises staff in performance of annual maintenance for a variety of properties including new
condominium and conversion data collectidn, neighborhood maintenance, sales verification, parcel
accounting, quality control, sub-register splits and consolidations, and new construction; dispatches
appraisers and field staff to places of work; directs staff to ensure work completion and
maintenance of standards; plans, assigns, and reviews work; provides training and instruction;
evaluates employee performance; responds to employee questions, concerns, and problems;
approves employee timesheets and leave requests; prepares and reviews documents related to
timesheets, requests for leave-and overtime; develops unit work plans and work performance
standards; monitors and provides for training needs; meets with employees individually and as a
unit; recommends personnel actions including selection, promotion, transfer, discipline, or
discharge.

30% 10%
Oversees and participates in the appraisal of agricultural and residential properties; completes
parcel accounting of any errors or omissions of value or characteristics on residential properties;
develops forms and information sheets; maintains schedules of deadlines and activities and
develops new data and valuations during update and re?appraisal years.

20% 100/0
Determines the value of residential property in the County; researches property information and
performs field inspections of new construction and major improvements to existing structures for
value determination; handles petitions to change values.

20% 10%
Communicates with builders, sales office staff, condominium associations, building departments,
taxpayers, realty offices and internet realty sites; provides information, answers questions and
resolves complaints by phone, mails and the internet regarding property characteristics and value;

Effective Date: 12.06.2011
Last Modi?ed: 04.10.2012

Page 35 of 125

Residential/Agricultural Appraisal Coordinator

reports progress and production to managers; attends meetings with supervisors and managers of
other divisions.

Minimum Training and Experience Required to Perform Essential Job Functions

. Bachelor?s degree in finance, economics, business or a related field with five (5) years of experience
in real estate, appraisal, property valuation, finance or related field; or an equivalent combination of
education. training, and experience.

Additional Requirements

. Real Estate Appraiser certification is required.

Minimum Physical and Mental Abilities Required to Perform Essential Job Functions

Physical Requirements

. Ability to operate a variety of automated office machines including computers and peripheral
equipment.

Supervisory Responsibilities

. Ability to assign, review, plan and coordinate the work of other employees and to maintain
standards.

. Ability to provide instruction and training to other employees.

Ability to solve and act on employee problems.

. Ability to recommend the transfer, selection, evaluation, or promotion of employees.
. Ability to recommend and act on the discipline or discharge of employees.
Mathematical Ability

. Ability to add, subtract, multiply, divide and calculate decimals and percentages, and perform
routine statistics.

Language Ability Interpersonal Communication

0 Requires the ability to perform mid-level data analysis including the ability to audit, deduce, assess,
conclude and appraise. Requires discretion in determining and referencing established criteria to
define consequences and develop alternatives.

. Ability to comprehend a variety of informational documents including production sheets, mileage
sheets, property inspections, tax bills, certificates, lists, and letters.

. Ability to comprehend a variety of reference books and manuals including computer manuals, new
construction manual, the Ohio Revised Code (ORC), tax appeals, plat maps, zoning maps, tax rate
book, appraisal manual, procedures, and policy manual.

. Ability to prepare weekly production report, planned production report, sales verification, appraisals,
training manuals, reports, forms, lists, correspondence, and other job?related documents using
prescribed format and conforming to all rules of punctuation, grammar, diction, and style.

Effective Date: 12.06.2011
Last Modi?ed: 04.10.2012

Page 36 of 125

Residential/Agricultural Appraisal Coordinator

. Ability to develop and maintain effective working relationships with a variety of individuals within and
outside the Department.

. Ability to use and interpret legal and real property appraisal terminology and language.

Ability to communicate with taxpayers, data collectors, co-workers, supervisors, other County
employees, employees from other agencies, builders, property owners and property managers, and
attorneys.

Environmental Adaptability

. Work is typically performed in an office environment.

Cuyahoga County is an Equal Opportunity Employer. in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the
County will provide reasonable accommodations to qualified individuals with disabilities and encourages both
prospective employees and incumbents to discuss potential accommodations with the employer.

Effective Date: 12.06.2011
Last Modi?ed: 04.10.2012

Page 37 of 125

CUYAHOGA COUNTY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Class Title: Manager, Print Production Class Number: 15162
FLSA: Exempt Par Grade: 11A
Dept: Public Works EK 1151+ 

 

 

Classification Function

The purpose of this classification is to provide print services to County departments and supervise staff
in the printing and reproduction department.

Distinguishing Characteristics

This is a level classification with responsibility for planning, directing, and controlling the printing and
reproduction department. This position oversees the operations and promotes the efficiencies ofthe
department, incorporates process improvements, and ensures that projects meet time and quality
objectives. Individuals in this position manage a small nUmber of employees. This position has input
into setting a budget and is responsible for staying within an assigned budget. This class is
distinguished from the Printing Coordinator in that it supervises the latter position and has responsibility
for overall management of the department.

Essential Job Functions

The following duties are normal for this classification. These are not to be construed as
exclusive or all-inclusive. Other duties may berequired and assigned.

35% 10%

. Supervises staff of printing and reproduction division; directs staff to ensure work completion
and maintenance of standards; plans, assigns, and reviews work; provides training and
instruction; evaluates employee performance; responds to employee questions, concerns, and
problems; approves employee timesheets and leave requests; prepares and reviews documents
related to payroll, timesheets, requests for leave and overtime; develops unit work plans and
work performance standards; monitors and provides for training needs; meets with employees
individually and as a unit; recommends personnel actions including selection, promotion,
transfer, discipline, or discharge.

30% 10%
Prepares bid and contract specifications; prepares invitation to bid prepares request for

proposal (RFP) for the County?s print management contract; monitors contract funding; reviews
and approves contract payments; performs financial and administrative duties of contract.

10% 5%

Provides print services to County departments; provides consulting services for County
agencies regarding printing requisitions; provides estimates, time frames, and procures
materials for projects; prepares, reviews, and processes print job specifications; processes
printing request to meet client's requirements; coordinates the production of printing orders
throughout the entire printing process.

10% 5%

Maintains and oversees the division operating budget; prepares, reviews, and presents pricing
model for division cost recovery; prepares and maintains a database of internal charges to County
agencies; prepares reports of division activities; reviews, performs, and approves accounts payable;
identifies operating and capital budget needs.

Effective Date: 2006
Last Modi?ed: 10.13.2016

Page 38 of 125

 

Senior Printing Coordinator

15% 10%

Performs related administrative responsibilities; prepares various reports, records, and other
documents; responds to emails and phone calls; attends various trainings and meetings;
performes agency assessments for placement of copiers and/or network printers; prepares,
recommends, and assists with all copier additions, removals, moves, and configuration updates;
maintains database containing all equipment models, locations, contacts, and average 
volumes.

Minimum Training and Experience Required to Perform Essential Job Functions

. High school diploma or equivalent with five (5) years of print production, printing services, graphic
communications, or related experience; or any equivalent combination of education, training,
and experience.

. Valid Ohio driver license, proof of automobile insurance, and a reliable vehicle.

Additional Requirements

. No special license or certification is required.

Minimum Physical and Mental Abilities Required to Perform Essential Job Functions

Physical Requirements

. Ability to operate a variety of automated office machines and specialized printing equipment.

. Ability to sit, stand, and walk for prolonged periods of time and push, pull, or lift up to 100 pounds.

Supervisory Responsibilities

. Ability to assign, review, plan, and coordinate the work of other employees and to maintain
standards.

. Ability to provide instruction and training to other employees.

. Ability to solve and act on employee problems.

. Ability to recommend the transfer, selection, evaluation, or promotion of employees.
. Ability to recommend and act on the discipline or discharge of employees.
Mathematical Ability

. Ability to add, subtract, multiply, divide, calculate decimals and percentages, and perform
routine statistics and basic algebra.

Language Ability Interpersonal Communication

. Requires the ability to perform mid-level data analysis including the ability to audit, deduce,
assess, conclude and appraise. Requires discretion in determining and referencing established
criteria to define consequences and develop alternatives.

Effective Date: 2006
Last Modified: 10.13.2016

Page 39 of 125

Senior Printing Coordinator

. Ability to comprehend a variety of informational documents including vendor invoices,
department orders, correspondence, in?house requisitions, checks, contract payments, requests
for quotes, personnel documents, and other reports and records.

. Ability to comprehend a variety of reference books and manuals including equipment operation
manuals, legal dictionary, and Personnel Policies and Procedures Manual.

. Ability to prepare print job Specifications, invitations to bid, bid evaluation documents, reports
revenue reports. paper usage reports, photo copier volume reports, and expenditures
report), correspondence, personnel documents, customer invoices, and other job related
documents using prescribed format and conforming to all rules of punctuation, grammar, diction
and style.

. Ability to supervise and counsel employees to record and deliver information, to explain
procedures, and to follow instructions.

. Ability to use and interpret print production, marketing, accounting, and contract terminology and
language.

. Ability to communicate effectively with supervisors, vendors, customers, contractors. coworkers,
and other County employees.

Environmental Adaptability
. Work is typically performed in the print shop.

. Work may involve exposure to strong odors, machinery, and noise extremes.

Cuyahoga County is an Equal Opportunity Employer. in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the
County will provide reasonable accommodations to qualified individuals with disabilities and encourages both
prospective employees and incumbents to discuss potential accommodations with the employer.

Effective Date: 2006
Last Modi?ed: 10.13.2016

Page 40 of 125

CUYAHOGA COUNTY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Class Title: Senior Supervisor, Nursing Class Number: 17032
FLSA: Exempt PayGrade: 12A
Dept: Human Services E303 ib} v-I? I

 

 

Classification Function

The purpose of this classification is to assist the Nursing Director with supervising Nursing Supervisors
and coordinating the home care skilled services programs.

Distinguishing Characteristics

This is a supervisory level classification responsible for coordinating and supervising care giving or
delivery of medical services. The class works under direction ofthe Director, Nursing and the incumbents
are expected to exercise discretion in applying policies and procedures to situations and in resolving day-
to-day issues. Employees are expected to promote the efficiency of the unit, incorporate process
improvements, and ensure that assigned activities are completed in a timely and efficient manner.

Essential Job Functions

The following duties are normal for this classification. These are not to be construed as exclusive
or all-inclusive. Other duties may be required and assigned.

45% 10%
Supervises and directs the work of the Nursing Supervisors and other assigned staff; directs staff to
ensure work completion and maintenance of standards: plans, assigns. and reviews work; provides
training and instruction; evaluates .employee performance; responds to employee questions,
concerns, and problems; approves employee timesheets and leave requests; prepares and reviews
documents related to timesheets, requests for leave, and overtime; develops and monitors unit
work plans and work performance standards; monitors and provides for training needs; meets with
employees individually and as a unit; recommends personnel actions including selection,
promotion, transfer, discipline, ordischarge.

25% 10%
Monitors direct patient care and health status; monitors in-home clinical assessments; identifies
appropriate level of care following directions in the client?s plan of care; ensures the appropriate
documentation of information in all medical, client, and supervisory records; monitors and evaluates
performance of Home Health Aides; makes client visits; responds to client complaints and concerns.

15% 5%
Develops and coordinates in-service training programs and independent study topics; develops
course curriculum; evaluates and modifies curriculum; supervises nurse trainers; ensures training
compliance with all regulatory requirements; conducts training programs; assists orienting new
employees; maintains training records.

15% 5%

Effective Date: 01.09.1999
Last Modi?ed: 02.11.2015

Page 41 of 125

Senior Supervisor, Nursing

- Performs related administrative responsibilities; prepares various reports, records, and other
documents; responds to emails and phone calls; attends various trainings and meetings; assists with
developing and monitoring quality assurance programs and compliance with program specifications;
monitors compliance and maintenance of records and forms in a timely manner; attends trainings,
conferences, and interagency and community meetings; develops and maintains policies and
procedures.

Minimum Training and Experience Required to Perform Essential Job Functions

. Must be licensed as a registered nurse by the Ohio Board of Nursing.

. Five (5) years of nursing experience including two (2) years in a supervisory capacity.

Additional Requirements

. Biennial renewal of license required.

Minimum Physical and Mental Abilities Required to Perform Essential Job Functions

Physical Requirements

. Ability to operate a variety of automated office machines including computer, fax, copier, typewriter,
etc.

Ability to use and operate a variety of nursing and medical equipment and tools including stethoscope,
intravenous pumps, etc.

. Ability to stand, walk. bend, twist and push and pull up to 200lbs (with assistance) and lift up to 50lbs.
Supervisory Responsibilities

Ability to assign, review. plan, and coordinate the work of other employees, and to maintain standards.

Ability to provide instruction to other employees.

Ability to solve and act on employee problems.

Ability to recommend the transfer, selection, evaluation, or promotion of employees.

. Ability to recommend and act on the discipline or discharge of employees.

Mathematical Ability

. Ability to add, subtract, multiply, divide, and calculate decimals and percentages.

Language Ability Interpersonal Communication

0 Requires the ability to perform mid-level data analysis including the ability to evaluate, coordinate,
strategize, systemize, and correlate, using discretion in determining time, place and/or sequence of

operations within an organizational framework. Requires the ability to implement decisions based on
such data and overseeing the execution ofthese decisions.

Effective Date: 01.09.1999
Last Modi?ed: 02.11.2015

Page 42 of 125

Senior Supervisor, Nursing

. Ability to comprehend a variety of informational documents including drug orders, laboratory reports,
client records, medical charts, nursing assignments, and other reports and records.

. Ability to comprehend a variety of reference books and manuals including Employee Handbook,
medical books and desk references, lab referral reference, and policies and procedures manuals.

. Ability to prepare training programs, quality assurance reports; nursing program reports, employee's
investigative reports, evaluations, schedules, and other job-related documents using prescribed
format and conforming to all rules of punctuation, grammar, diction, and style.

. Ability to supervise, convince and influence others, to record and deliver information, to explain
procedures, to maintain confidentiality of restricted information, and to follow instructions.

. Ability to use and interpret medical and counseling terminology and language.

. Ability to communicate effectively with employees, supervisor, physicians, clients, families,
community groups, medical staff, law enforcement staff, other County employees, and the general
public.

Environmental Adaptability

. Work is typically performed in a health care facility.

Cuyahoga County is an Equal Opportunity Employer. in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the
County will provide reasonable accommodations to qualified individuals with disabilities and encourages both
prospective employees and incumbents to discuss potential accommodations with the employer.

Effective Date: 01.09.1999
Last Modi?ed: 02.11.2015

Page 43 of 125

CUYAHOGA COUNTY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Class Title: Supervisor, Drug Chemistry Laboratory Class Number: 12264
FLSA: Exempt Pay Grade: 17A
Dept: Medical Examiner?s Office KHibi ?5

 

 

Classification Function

The purpose of this classification is to supervise and participate in the daily operations of the Drug
Chemistry Department of the Medical Examiner's Office, ensuring the proper handling and analysis of
evidence to detect poisonings and drug use in order to aid legal investigations of crimes and/or death.

Distinguishing Characteristics

This is a manager level classification. incumbents in the class work under general supervision of the
Managing Laboratory Director and Quality Assurance Manager. This position oversees the operations
and promotes the efficiencies of the drug chemistry lab unit, incorporates process improvements, and
ensures that work meets time and quality objectives. The employee is responsible for ensuring proper
preservation and documentation of evidence and adherence to applicable laws, protocols, and
regulations. This class supervises Forensic Scientists and other assigned staff.

Essential Job Functions

The following duties are normal for this classification. These are not to be construed as exclusive
or all-inclusive. Other duties may be required and assigned.

55% 10%

Performs administrative and technical case reviews; reviews technical laboratory records and results
of tests and examinatibns; reviews analysis worksheets, evidence submission forms, electronic
instrument, data, and final-reports for accuracy and completeness; confers with Forensic Scientist in
cases of error or other problems; compiles/manages caseload statistics; researches information
regarding new drug compounds; stays up to date on changes in state and federal laws regarding drug
classificatidns and narcotic laws; provides courttestimony as an expert witness.

20% 10%

. Supervises assigned staff; directs staff to ensure work completion and maintenance of standards;
plans, assigns, and reviews work; provides training and instruction; evaluates employee performance;
responds to employee questions, concerns, and problems; assists staff with complex or problem
situations; approves employee timesheets and leave requests; prepares and reviews documents
related to timesheets, requests for leave and overtime; develops and monitors unit work plans and
work performance standards; monitors and provides for training needs; meets with employees
individually and as a unit; recommends personnel actions including selection, promotion, transfer,
discipline, or discharge.

10% 5%

Ensures that drug chemistry laboratory activities are completed on time and accurately; ensures drug
chemistry unit maintains compliance with applicable accreditation requirements; investigates
technical errors and provides recommendations on appropriate corrective and preventative
measures; provides troubleshooting services to resolve equipment, instrumentation, or analytical
method issues; implements and enforces quality assurance procedures; ensures that proper safety
procedures are followed; prepares necessary operating procedure paperwork.

Effective Date: 07.28.2014
Last modi?ed: 07.28.2014

Page 44 of 125

Supervisor, Drug Chemistry Laboratory

10% 5%

. Oversees regular maintenance of Drug Chemistry laboratory spaces and equipment; ensures that
supplies and equipment are available so that productivity is not interrupted; maintains and
troubleshoots laboratory instruments; ensures that supplies and reagents are ordered in a timely
fashion; reviews purchase orders for technical accuracy; ensures performance of equipment after
repairs, maintenance, or malfunction.

5% 2%

. Performs related administrative responsibilities; prepares and maintains various records and other
documents; responds to emails and phone calls; attends and participates in professional group
meetings, conferences, seminars, and trainings; keeps current on new trends, information, and
technology in the field; researches, validates, and implements new procedures; performs 
audits of controlled substance holding area.

Minimum Training and Experience Required to Perform Essential Job Functions

. Bachelor's degree in a chemical, physical, forensic, or biological science, or related field and six (6)
years of forensic drug chemistry experience; or an equivalent combination of education, training, and
expenence.

Additional Requirements

. Attainment of applicable scientific field certification.

. Completion of FEMA ICS 100, 200, and 700 courses is required within probationary period (180
days).

Minimum Physical and Mental Abilities Required to Perform Essential Job Functions
Physical Requirements

. Ability to operate a variety of automated office machines including computers and peripheral
equipment;

. Ability to use a variety of laboratory tools and equipment, including a stereo microscope, analytical
balance, camera, gas chromatograph, mass spectrometer, and Fourier Transform Infrared
Spectrometer.

. Ability to stand for a prolonged period of time and ability to lift up to 100 lbs. (with assistance).

Supervisory Responsibilities

Ability to assign, review, plan, and coordinate the work of other employees, and to maintain standards.

Ability to provide instruction and training to other employees.

Ability to solve and act on employee problems.

Ability to recommend the transfer, selection, evaluation, or promotion of employees.

Ability to recommend and act on the discipline or discharge of employees.

Effective Date: 07.28.2014
Last modi?ed: 07.28.2014

Page 45 of 125

Supervisor, Drug Chemistry Laboratory
Mathematical Ability

. Ability to add, subtract, multiply, divide, calculate decimals and percentages, and perform routine
and advanced statistical analysis and college level algebra.

Language Ability interpersonal Communication

. Requires the ability to perform mid to high level data analysis requiring managing of data and people
deciding the time, sequence of operations or events within the context of a process, system or
organization. Involves determining the necessity for revising goals, objectives, policies, procedures or
functions based on the analysis of data/information and includes performance reviews pertinent to
objectives, functions, and requirements.

. Ability to comprehend a variety of informational documents including chain of custody records,
instrumental data, records, equipment/instrumental maintenance records analysis
worksheets, evidence submission forms, electronic final reports, and log books.

. Ability to comprehend a variety of reference books and manuals including the Employee Handbook,
Ohio Revised Code, Federal Drug Codes, ANSI-A80 National Accreditation Board Standards.
Guidelines, standard operating procedures, forensic science books and journals, training
manuals, instrument/equipment manual, safety manuals, quality assurance manuals, and code of
ethics.

. Ability to prepare set records, competency test records, drug chemistry case records, evidence logs,
analytical results, forms, charts, correspondence, purchasing requests, quality control records for
assays, daily work log for staff, departmental memos, caseload statistics, audit
reports, performance appraisals, quality assurance data, and other job related documents using
prescribed format and conforming to all rules of punctuation, grammar, diction, and style.

- Ability to supervise and counsel employees, convince and influence others. to record and deliver
information, to explain procedures, and to follow instructions.

. Ability to use and interpret medical, scientific, and legal terminology and language.

. Ability to communicate and to develop and maintain effective working relationships with section staff,
other departmental employees/managers, supervisor, prosecutor?s staff, law enforcement personnel,
attorneys, juries, and members of the public.

Environmental Adaptability

. Work is typically performed in an office/laboratory environment.

a Work may involve exposure to strong odors, toxic or poisonous agents, smoke, dust, disease, bodily

fluids, electrical currents, bright or dim lights, and laboratory equipment/machinery.

Cuyahoga County is an Equal Opportunity Employer. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the
County will provide reasonable accommodations to qualified individuals with disabilities and encourages both
prospective employees and incumbents to discuss potential accommodations with the employer.

Effective Date: 07.28.2014
Last modi?ed: 07.28.2014

Page 46 of 125

CUYAHOGA COUNTY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Class Title: Fleet Services Supervisor Class Number: 15072
FLSA: Exempt Pay Grade: - 11A
Dept: Public Works lEXh'ibi-I- 

 

 

Classification Function

The purpose of this classification is to supervise and direct the work of mechanics and other assigned
staff and oversee the maintenance and repair of County automotive and mechanic equipment and related
facm?es.

Distinguishing Characteristics

This is a first-line supervisor classification working under general supervision of the Manager, Fleet
Services. This class works within a framework of policies, procedures, and regulations, and the employee
exercises discretion and judgment in supervising employees, overseeing the unit?s functioning, resolving
any service delivery problems, and ensuring compliance with applicable regulations and budgetary
restrictions.

Essential Job Functions

The following duties are normal for this classification. These are not to be construed as exclusive
or all-inclusive. Other duties may be required and assigned.

30% 10%

. Supervises and directs the work of mechanics and other assigned staff; directs staff to ensure work
completion and maintenance of standards; plans, assigns, and reviews work; provides training and
instruction; evaluates employee performance; responds to employee questions, concerns, and
problems; approves employee timesheets and leave requests; prepares and reviews documents
related to payroll, timesheets, requests for leave and overtime; develops unit work plans and work
performance standards; monitors and provides fortraining needs; meets with employees individually
and as a unit; recommends personnel actions including selection, promotion, transfer, discipline, or
discharge.

30% 10%

. Schedules and tracks vehicle maintenance and repairs; makes determination of necessary repairs to
underground storage tanks; applies labor charges for repair orders; orders required replacement
parts from correct vendors; analyzes body shop estimates and schedules repairs with body shops;
monitors and schedules vehicle warranty repairs and recalls; analyzes and produces preventative
maintenance reports for serViCe scheduling; oversees snow plow and salt equipment preparation,
repair, and maintenance; OVersees welding and fabrication work; makes routine inspections of
equipment; operates various motor vehicles to run diagnostics and test after repairs have been
completed; schedules and coordinates vehicle cleaning

20% 10%

Oversees operations of the public works facility; conducts inventory of parts and equipment;
determines needs, obtains bids, and orders equipment and supplies; analyzes and monitors data
from underground storage tanks; makes repairs as needed; supports and assists with county fuel
card purchase program; monitors County GPS system and coordinates installations, removals, and
reporting.

Effective Date: 07.10.2012
Last Modi?ed: 07.10.2012

Page 47 of 125

Fleet Services Supervisor

20% 10%

Performs related administrative responsibilities; prepares various reports, records, and other
documents; responds to emails and phone calls; attends various trainings and meetings; prepares
purchase orders; provides input in budget meetings; prepares budget requests; coordinates vehicle
auctions; schedules and approves vehicle loaner/rental requests.

Minimum Training and Experience Required to Perform Essential Job Functions

Associate degree in Automotive Technology and three (3) years of auto mechanics experience; or an
equivalent combination of education, training, and experience.

Automotive Service Excellence (ASE) Master Certification in Automotive and Medium/Heavy Duty
Truck; or equivalent technical training.

. Valid driver's license and proof of automobile insurance.
Additional Requirements

Must obtain and maintain a class Underground Storage Tank Operator within six (6) months of
hire date.

. Must obtain an EPA Section 609 MVAC Certification within six (6) months of hire date.
Minimum Physical and Mental Abilities Required to Perform Essential Job Functions
Physical Requirements

Ability _to operate a variety of automated office machines including computer and copier.
. Ability to operate various motor vehicles including automobiles, vans. and pick-up trucks.
0 Ability to utilize automobile diagnostic and maintenance equipment, tools, and supplies.
. Ability to crawl, crouch, bend, twist, and lift, push, or pull up to 50lbs.

Supervisory Responsibilities

Ability to assign, review, plan, and coordinate the work of other employees and to maintain standards.
Ability to provide instruction and training to other employees.

. Ability to solve and act on employee problems.

. Ability to recommend the transfer, selection, evaluation, or promotion of employees

. Ability to recommend the discipline or discharge of employees.

Mathematical Ability

Ability to add, subtract, multiply, divide, and calculate decimals and percentages.
Language Ability Interpersonal Communication

Effective Date: 07.10.2012
Last Modi?ed: 07.10.2012

Page 48 of 125

Fleet Services Supervisor

. Ability to perform mid-level data analysis including the ability to audit, deduce, assess, conclude and
appraise. Requires discretion in determining and referencing established criteria to define
consequences and develop alternatives.

0 Ability to comprehend a variety of informational documents including work orders, mileage reports,
estimates, garage reports, equipment reports, and other reports and records.

. Ability to comprehend a variety of reference books and manuals including employee handbook, sh0p
manuals, fleet buyers guide, vehicle electronics manual, parts manuals, equipment manuals,
Electronic orWeb Based Programs and Reference Materials, Ohio Administrative Code (AOC), Ohio
Revised Code (ORC), Federal Code for Regulations (CPR), and Department ofTransportation (DOT)

. Ability to prepare schedules, garage reports, work orders, estimates, Chargebacleorce accounts,
purchase orders, disciplinary reports, time and leave documents, and other job?related documents
using prescribed format and conforming to all rules of punctuation, grammar, diction, and style.

. Ability to convince and influence others, to record and deliver information, to explain procedures, to
maintain confidentiality of restricted information, and to follow instructions.

. Ability to use and interpret mechanical and electrical terminology and language.

0 Ability to communicate effectively with supervisor, department directors, drivers, security personnel,
auto body shop personnel, sales representatives, subordinates, and the general public.

Environmental Adaptability
. Work is typically performed in a maintenance garage environment.

. Work may involve exposure to strong odors, smoke, electrical currents, noise extremes, vibrations,
and machinery.

Cuyahoga County is an Equal Opportunity Employer. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the
County will provide reasonable accommodations to qualified individuals with disabilities and encourages both
prospective employees and incumbents to discuss potential accommodations with the employer.

Effective Date: 07.10.2012
Last Modi?ed: 07.10.2012

Page 49 of 125

CUYAHOGA COUNTY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Class Title: Supervisor, Trace Evidence Laboratory Class Number: 12274
FLSA: Exempt Pay Grade: 17A
Dept: Medical Examiner?s Office 7th. bi+ L-

 

Classification Function

The purpose of this classification is to supervise and participate in the recognition, collection, and
analysis of trace evidence collected in house, submitted by outside agencies, or collected from crime
scenes; to produce trace evidence reports for analyses performed, and to testify in courts of law as to
the results of trace evidence examinations.

Distinguishing Characteristics

This is a manager level classification. Incumbents in this classification work under general supervision
of the Managing Laboratory Director and Quality Assurance Manager. This position oversees and
promotes the efficiencies of the trace evidence lab unit, incorporates process improvements, and
ensures that work meets time and quality objectives. The employee is responsible for ensuring proper
preservation and documentation of evidence and adherence to applicable laws, protocols, and
regulations. This class supervises Forensic Scientists and other assigned staff.

Essential Job Functions

The following duties are normal for this classification. These are not to be construed as
exclusive or all-inclusive. Other duties may be required and assigned.

40% 10%

. Oversees and participates in the recognition, collection, and processing of evidence from vehicles,
victims of violent death, items collected at autopsy, and items submitted by outside law enforcement
agencies; prepares and analyzes trace evidence samples on scientific instrumentation; applies
instrumental, physical, and chemical techniques in the examination of trace evidence; documents
and records observations'and results .of trace evidence examinations; analyzes and compiles data;
compiles case files and generates trace evidence final reports; provides opinion and interpretation
of results; performs administrative and technical review of data, trace evidence case files. and
reports generated by other trace evidence staff; testifies in courts of law regarding trace evidence
examinations.

20% 10%

. Supervises and directs the work of Forensic Scientists and other assigned staff; directs staff to ensure
work completion and maintenance of standards; plans, assigns, and reviews work; provides training
and instruction; evaluates employee performance; assists staff with complex or problem situations;
responds to employee questions, concerns, and problems; coordinates on?call and work rotation
schedules; approves employee timesheets and leave requests; prepares and reviews documents
related to timesheets, requests for leave. and overtime; develops and monitors unit work plans and
work performance standards; monitors and provides for training needs; meets with employees
individually and as a unit; recommends personnel actions including selection, promotion, transfer,
discipline. or discharge.

Effective Date: 07.28.2014
Last Modi?ed: 07.28.2014

Page 50 of 125

 

Supervisor, Trace Evidence Lab

15% 5%

- Ensures that trace evidence laboratory activities are completed on?time and accurately; reviews
required reports; analyzes, interprets, and reports on assigned case work; ensures trace evidence
unit maintains compliance with applicable accreditation requirements; investigates technical errors
and provides recommendations on appropriate corrective and preventative measures; provides
troubleshooting services to resolve equipment, instrumentation, or analytical method issues;
manages case statistics; implements and enforces quality assurance procedures; ensures that
safety procedures are followed.

10% 5%
. Communicates with a variety of individuals and groups; oversees lectures, internships, department
tours, and detective requests; presents lectures to students, lawyers, and law enforcement
personnel.

10% 5%

. Oversees regular maintenance of Trace Evidence laboratory spaces and equipment; ensures that
supplies and equipment are available so that productivity is not interrupted; reviews purchase
orders for technical accuracy; ensures that supplies and reagents are ordered in a timely fashion;
ensures performance of equipment after repairs, maintenance, or malfunction.

5% 2%

Performs related administrative responsibilities; prepares various reports, records, and other
documents; responds to emails and phone calls; attends and participates in professional group
meetings, conferences, seminars, and trainings; keeps current on new trends and information in the
field; researches, validates, and implements new procedures.

Minimum Training and Experience Required to Perform Essential Job Functions

. Bachelor?s degree in a chemical, physical, biological, or forensic science with six (6) years of
experience performing forensic trace evidence analysis; or an equivalent combination of education,
training, and experience.

Additional Requirements

0 Completion of FEMA ICS 100, 200, and 700 courses is required within probationary period (180
days).

Minimum Physical and Mental Abilities Required to Perform Essential Job Functions
Physical Requirements

. Ability to operate a variety of automated office machines including computers and peripheral
equipment.

. Ability to use a variety of laboratory tools and equipment, including a scanning electron microscope,
energy dispersive x?ray detector, infrared spectrometer; digital camera, and optical microscope

Supervisory Responsibilities

- Ability to assign, review, plan and coordinate the work of other employees, and to maintain
standards.

- Ability to provide instruction and training to other employees.

Effective Date: 07.28.2014
Last Modi?ed: 07.28.2014

Page 51 of 125

Supervisor, Trace Evidence Lab

Ability to solve and act on employee problems.
Ability to recommend the transfer, selection, evaluation, or promotion of employees.

Ability to recommend and act on the discipline or discharge of employees.

Mathematical Ability

Ability to add, subtract, multiply, divide and calculate decimals and percentages, routine statistics,
and understand college level algebra, geometry, and trigonometry.

Language Ability 8: Interpersonal Communication

Requires the ability to perform mid to high level data analysis requiring managing of data and
people deciding the time, sequence of operations or events within the context of a process, system
or organization. Involves determining the necessity for revising goals, objectives, policies,
procedures or functions based on the analysis of data/information and includes performance
reviews pertinent to objectives, functions, and requirements.

Ability to comprehend a variety of informational documents including qualitative data, spectra,
statistical reports, chain of custody record, case history forms, trace evidence reports, autopsy
reports, police reports and photos, requests for information release, subpoenas, record of evidence
submissions, record of evidence releases, case final reports, and supply order requests.

Ability to comprehend a variety of reference books and manuals including Employee Handbook,
standard operating procedures, forensic science books and journals, quality assurance manual,
safety manual, training manual, instrument manuals, hazardous material records, and code of
ethics.

Ability to prepare training set records, competency test records, forms, and charts, statistical
reports, chain of custody, instrument performance check records, trace evidence case files, trace
evidence laboratory examination reports, trace evidence unit manual updates. trace evidence
procedures, quality assurance documents, instrument maintenance logs, supply order requests,
correspondence, and other job related documents using prescribed format and conforming to all
rules of punctuation, grammar, diction, and style.

Ability to supervise and counsel employees, convince and influence others, to record and deliver
information, to explain procedures, and to follow instructions.

Ability to use and interpret medical, scientific. and legal terminology and language.
Ability to communicate and to develop and maintain effective working relationships with staff, other

departmental employees/managers, supervisor, attorneys, law enforcement personnel, and
students.

Environmental Adaptability

Work is typically performed in an office/laboratory environment

Work may involve exposure to strong odors, toxic agents, disease, bodily fluids, electrical currents,
and laboratory equipment/machinery.

Effective Date: 07.28.2014
Last Modi?ed: 07.28.2014

Page 52 of 125

Supervisor, Trace Evidence Lab

Cuyahoga County is an Equal Opportunity Employer. in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the
County will provide reasonable accommodations to qualified individuals with disabilities and encourages both
prospective employees and incumbents to discuss potential accommodations with the employer.

Effective Date: 07.28.2014
Last Modi?ed: 07.28.2014

Page 53 of 125

F. Allen Boseman, Commissioner
Thomas L. Colaluca, Commissioner
Deborah Southerington, Commissioner

CUYAHOGA COUNTY
PERSONNEL REVIEW COMMSSION
MEMORANDUM

DATE:

October 7, 2019

TO:

Cuyahoga County Council President Dan Brady
Shontel Brown, Chairwoman, Human Resources, Appointments & Equity
Committee
Council Members, Human Resources, Appointments & Equity
Committee

FROM:

F. Allen Boseman, Chairman

Cuyahoga County Personnel Review Commission
RE:

Recommending Modifications to Class Plan

Please be advised that on August 2, 2019, the Personnel Review Commission considered and
approved recommending modifications to the County’s classification plan. In accordance with
PRC Rule 4.06, these proposed changes were posted on the PRC’s website before any formal
action was taken on them. Details of the recommended changes are below:

PROPOSED REVISED CLASSIFICATIONS
REVISED CLASSIFICATIONS CURRENT
RECOMMEN DEPARTMENT
(Revised Title)
PAY GRADE
DED PAY
& FLSA
GRADE &
FLSA
Communications Specialist 10151
11A/Exempt
11A/Exempt
Communications
(No Change)

Page 54 of 125

 REVISED CLASSIFICATIONS
(Revised Title)

CURRENT
PAY GRADE
& FLSA

Construction Technician 18011

4A/Non-Exempt

Forensic Photographer 12211

6A/Non-Exempt

Laboratory Technician –
Toxicology 12191
Manager, Fleet Services 15073

5A/Non-Exempt

Medical Records Technician 17021

6A/Non-Exempt

Residential/Agricultural Appraisal
Coordinator 20011
Senior Printing Coordinator
(Manager, Print Production) 15162
Senior Supervisor, Nursing 17032

13A/Exempt

Supervisor, Drug Chemistry
Laboratory 12264
Supervisor, Fleet Services 15072

17A/Exempt

Supervisor, Trace Evidence
Laboratory 12274

17A/Exempt

cc:

13A/Exempt

11A/Exempt
12A/Exempt

11A/Exempt

Deborah Southerington, Commissioner
Thomas Colaluca, Commissioner
Rebecca Kopcienski, PRC Director
Armond Budish, County Executive
Douglas Dykes, Chief Talent Officer
Holly Woods, Dir. of HR Benefits and Compensation
Rhonda Caldwell, Compensation Manager

Page 55 of 125

RECOMMEN
DED PAY
GRADE &
FLSA
4A/Non-Exempt
(No Change)
6A/Non-Exempt
(No Change)
5A/Non-Exempt
(No Change)
13A/Exempt
(No Change)
6A/Non-Exempt
(No Change)
13A/Exempt
(No Change)
11A/Exempt
(No Change)
12A/Exempt
(No Change)
17A/Exempt
(No Change)
11A/Exempt
(No Change)
17A/Exempt
(No Change)

DEPARTMENT

Public Works
Medical Examiner
Medical Examiner
Public Works
Health and Human services
Fiscal Office
Public Works
Human Services
Medical Examiner
Public Works
Medical Examiner

Joseph Nanni, Council Chief of Staff
Kelli Neale, Program Officer 4
Jeanne Schmotzer, Clerk of Council
Maggie Keenan, Director of OBM

Page 2 of 2

 CURRENT CLASSIFICATION
Class Number Classification Title
10151

Department

Communications Specialist

Communications

FLSA Status
Exempt

Pay Grade
11A

PROPOSED REVISED CLASSIFICATION
Class Number Classification Title
10151

Department

Communications Specialist

Communications

FLSA Status
Exempt

Pay Grade
11A

Requested By:

Personnel Review Commission

Rationale:

PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised in 2012. The essential job
functions, language, formatting, and minimum qualifications were updated. No
change to pay grade or FLSA status.

No. of Employees
Affected:

Four (4)

Dept.(s) Affected:

Communications Department

Fiscal Impact:

None

Staffing
Implications:

None

PRC Contact(s):

Verona Blonde, Classification and Compensation Specialist
Albert Bouchahine, Manager of Classification and Compensation

Page 56 of 125

 Human Resources
and Management
Contact(s):
Mary Louise
Madigan, Director of
Communications

Eliza Wing, CCO

Jim Battigaglia –
Archer Consultant

Date of Contact:

Type of Contact:

Reason:

8/6/2019
8/8/2019
8/22/2019
9/9/2019
9/9/2019
9/9/2019
8/6/2019
8/8/2019
8/22/2019
9/9/2019
9/9/2019
9/9/2019
9/10/2019

Email
Email
Email
Email
Email
Email
Email
Email
Email
Email
Email
Email
Email

Copied on
Communications
Copied on
Communications
Copied on
Communications
Review of Final Draft
Follow Up Question
Reminder
Reminder
Clarification
Confirmation of Change
Request for Pay Grade
Evaluation

Page 57 of 125

 CUYAHOGA COUNTY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION
Class Title:
FLSA:
Dept:

Communications Specialist
Exempt
Communications Department

Class Number:
Pay Grade:

10151
11A

Classification Function
The purpose of this classification is to write and develop internal and external communication collateral
for Cuyahoga County’s Communications Department.
Distinguishing Characteristics
This is a journey level classification with responsibility for creating, designing, and delivering public
relations, marketing, and informational materials. Employees at this level are expected to become fully
aware of operating procedures and policies of the assigned work unit. The incumbents receive immediate
supervision progressing to general supervision as experience is gained.
Essential Job Functions
The following duties are normal for this classification. These are not to be construed as exclusive
or all-inclusive. Other duties may be required and assigned.








40% +/- 10%
Develops and writes internal and external communication collateral for Cuyahoga County’s
Communications Department; develops communication collateral (including press releases,
newsletters, employee communications, web writing, blog posts, long-form articles, County business,
and various campaigns and social media posts); maintains relationships with subject matter experts
from different county departments, the media, and other outside sources; researches information to
prepare for writing stories using online, in-print, and authoritative sources; gathers input from relevant
stakeholders and subject matter experts for press release development, blog posts, and media;
reviews and analyzes data gathered from sources for content production; collaborates with all county
agencies to develop their communication strategies and tactics; develops online surveys to
understand the County and community's perspective on specific issues.
30% +/- 10%
Proposes and develops ideas and strategies to enhance the County’s public image; communicates
with media personnel regarding Cuyahoga County stories or press releases; monitors media
coverage via online resources and social media; drafts and/or pitches ideas for approval by the
Chief Communications Officer or Council; assists with creating speeches and presentations for
county departments and directors.
20% +/- 10%
Reviews, coordinates, and responds to public records requests for the Communications Department;
utilizes storage software to log and track requests; gathers materials and information to send in
response to requests; assists with public records audits by answering questions and providing
information.
10% +/- 5%
Manages the bidding process for Communication Department contracts; selects vendors based on
responses to RFPs/RFIs; reviews bids to select most appropriate vendor; sends contracts to the
Office of Procurement and Diversity; enters information into enterprise information platform and
procurement system; processes payments for purchases.
Page 58 of 125

Effective Date: 04.10.2012
Last Modified: 04.10.2012

 Communications Specialist
Minimum Training and Experience Required to Perform Essential Job Functions


Bachelor’s degree in public relations, communications or related field with three (3) years of public
relations, marketing communications, or journalism experience; or any equivalent combination of
education, training and experience.

Additional Requirements


No special license or certification is required.

Minimum Physical and Mental Abilities Required to Perform Essential Job Functions
Physical Requirements


Ability to operate a variety of automated office machines including computer, copier, and telephone.

Supervisory Responsibilities


No supervisory responsibilities.

Mathematical Ability


Ability to add, subtract, multiply, and divide, and calculate decimals and percentages.

Language Ability & Interpersonal Communication


Requires the ability to perform mid-level data analysis including the ability to audit, deduce, assess,
conclude, and appraise. Requires discretion in determining and referencing such to established criteria
to define consequences and develop alternatives.



Requires excellent written and superior verbal communication skills.



Ability to comprehend a variety of informational documents including monthly and annual reports,
editorials, brochures, news segments, spreadsheets, print requests, design files, and other reports
and documents.



Ability to comprehend a variety of reference books and manuals including Employee Handbook,
agency policies and procedures manual, and County branding standards.



Ability to prepare presentations, annual reports, newsletters, brochures, editorials, news releases,
web pages, design files, correspondence and other job-related documents using prescribed format
and conforming to all rules of punctuation, grammar, diction, and style.



Ability to convince and influence others, to record and deliver information, to explain procedures, and
to follow instructions.



Ability to use and interpret public relations, media, and marketing terminology and language.



Ability to communicate with director, managers, coworkers, other County employees, and the public.

Environmental Adaptability


Work is typically performed in an office environment.
Page 59 of 125

Effective Date: 04.10.2012
Last Modified: 04.10.2012

 Communications Specialist
Cuyahoga County is an Equal Opportunity Employer. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the
County will provide reasonable accommodations to qualified individuals with disabilities and encourages both
prospective employees and incumbents to discuss potential accommodations with the employer.

Page 60 of 125

Effective Date: 04.10.2012
Last Modified: 04.10.2012

 CURRENT CLASSIFICATION
Class Number Classification Title
18011

Department

Construction Technician

Public Works

FLSA Status
Non-Exempt

Pay Grade
4A

PROPOSED REVISED CLASSIFICATION
Class Number Classification Title
18011

Department

Construction Technician

Public Works

FLSA Status
Non-Exempt

Pay Grade
4A

Requested By:

Personnel Review Commission

Rationale:

PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised in 2012. The essential job
functions, minimum qualifications, language, and formatting were updated. No
change to pay grade or FLSA status.

No. of Employees
Affected:

Two (2)

Dept.(s) Affected:

Public Works

Fiscal Impact:

None

Staffing
Implications:

None

PRC Contact(s):

Verona Blonde, Classification and Compensation Specialist
Albert Bouchahine, Manager of Classification and Compensation

Page 61 of 125

 Human Resources
and Management
Contact(s):
Michael Tworzydlo

Date of Contact:

Type of Contact:

Reason:

7/16/2019
8/14/2019
8/23/2019

Email
Email
Email

Michael Dever,
Director of PW

7/16/2019
8/14/2019
8/23/2019

Email
Email
Email

Jim Battigaglia –
Archer Consultant

9/10/2019

Email

Review of Final Draft
Reminder
Questions regarding
Driver’s License and
Environmental Hazards
Copied on
Communications
Copied on
Communications
Request for Pay Grade
Evaluation

Page 62 of 125

 CUYAHOGA COUNTY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION
Class Title:
FLSA:
Dept:

Construction Technician
Non-Exempt
Public Works

Class Number:
Pay Grade:

18011
4A

Classification Function
The purpose of this classification is to inspect various phases of construction to ensure that the project
complies with contractual plans and specifications.
Distinguishing Characteristics
This is an entry-level technical classification with responsibility for inspecting phases of construction for
compliance with plans and specifications. Positions in this class work under general guidance and
supervision and perform recurring tasks using standard methods and techniques. This classification
works under a framework of well-defined policies, procedures, and regulations. This position has no
supervisory responsibilities.
Essential Job Functions
The following duties are normal for this classification. These are not to be construed as exclusive
or all-inclusive. Other duties may be required and assigned.






75% +/- 10%
Inspects various phases of construction to ensure that the project complies with contractual plans
and specifications; inspects and records project information (e.g. type and quality of work, progress
and incident pictures, pay item quantities, construction methods, material inspection reports, etc.);
provides daily reports of project observations and work completed to project lead for review; ensures
projects are being completed according to local, State, and Federal standards; ensures that all
relevant local, State, and Federal safety policies and procedures are being observed; reviews project
blueprints, specifications, and contracts to verify material quantities and calculations; collects material
samples to be delivered off-site for physical testing; calculates material quantities used on project;
observes and records non-satisfactory, defective, or incomplete work for project finalization.
15% +/- 5%
Serves as a liaison to the public; assures safety practices are being met; answers questions and
addresses concerns related to the construction project; works with angry/dissatisfied residents to
resolve issues; assists with establishing safe pedestrian and vehicle traffic routes through or around
the construction project site.
10% +/- 5%
Assists with various administrative support functions; records daily project site attendance; verifies
overtime reports submitted by contractors; submits orders for field office supplies; submits annual
field office inventory report.

Experience Required to Perform Essential Job Functions


High school diploma or equivalent with two (2) years of construction or related experience; or any
equivalent combination of education, training, and experience.



Valid driver’s license and proof of automobile insurance is required.
Effective Date: 07.10.2012
Last Modified: 07.10.2012

Page 63 of 125

 Construction Technician
Additional Requirements


No special license or certification is required.

Minimum Physical and Mental Abilities Required to Perform Essential Job Functions
Physical Requirements


Ability to operate a variety of survey tools and equipment and automated office machines including
computers and peripheral equipment.

Supervisory Responsibilities


No supervisory responsibilities.

Mathematical Ability


Ability to add, subtract, multiply, divide, calculate decimals and percentages, and perform basic
algebra and geometry.

Language Ability & Interpersonal Communication


Ability to perform basic level of data analysis including the ability to review, classify, categorize, prioritize
and/or reference data, statutes and/or guidelines and/or group, rank, investigate and problem solve.
Requires discretion in determining and referencing such to established standards to recognize
interactive effects and relationships.



Ability to comprehend a variety of informational documents including timesheets, invoices,
engineering plans and specifications, delivery tickets, forms, and work orders.



Ability to comprehend a variety of reference books and manuals including departmental manuals, the
Employee Handbook, reference manuals, OSHA rules and standards, specifications, and standards.



Ability to prepare calculations, records of samples, inspection reports, signage summary, force
account, notes in field book, and other job related documents using prescribed format and conforming
to all rules of punctuation, grammar, diction, and style.



Ability to record and deliver information, to explain procedures, and to follow instructions.



Ability to develop and maintain effective working relationships with a variety of individuals within and
outside the department.



Ability to use and interpret construction related terminology and language.



Ability to communicate with supervisor, consultants, engineers, co-workers, and the general public.

Environmental Adaptability


Work is typically performed in an office environment and at a construction project site.



Work may involve exposure to temperature and weather extremes, dust, wetness or humidity, noise
extremes, machinery, and traffic hazards.
Effective Date: 07.10.2012
Last Modified: 07.10.2012

Page 64 of 125

 Construction Technician
Cuyahoga County is an Equal Opportunity Employer. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the
County will provide reasonable accommodations to qualified individuals with disabilities and encourages both
prospective employees and incumbents to discuss potential accommodations with the employer.

Effective Date: 07.10.2012
Last Modified: 07.10.2012

Page 65 of 125

 CURRENT CLASSIFICATION
Class Number Classification Title
12211

Department

Forensic Photographer

MEO

FLSA Status
Non-Exempt

Pay Grade
6A

PROPOSED REVISED CLASSIFICATION
Class Number Classification Title
12211

Department

Forensic Photographer

MEO

FLSA Status
Non-Exempt

Pay Grade
6A

Requested By:

Personnel Review Commission

Rationale:

PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised in 2014. The essential job
functions, language, formatting, and minimum qualifications were updated. No
change to pay grade or FLSA status.

No. of Employees
Affected:

Three (3)

Dept.(s) Affected:

Medical Examiner’s Office

Fiscal Impact:

None

Staffing
Implications:

None

PRC Contact(s):

Verona Blonde, Classification and Compensation Specialist
Albert Bouchahine, Manager of Classification and Compensation

Page 66 of 125

 Human Resources
and Management
Contact(s):
Kate Snyder, Chief
Forensic
Photographer

Date of Contact:

Type of Contact:

Reason:

5/21/2019
6/5/2019
6/13/2019
6/18/2019
7/8/2019
8/8/2019
8/21/2019
5/21/2019

Email
Email
Email
Email
Email
Email
Email
Email

8/8/2019

Email

Hugh Shannon,
Administrator

5/21/2019

Email

8/8/2019

Email

Jim Battigaglia –
Archer Consultant

9/10/2019

Email

Review of Final Draft
Reminder
Reminder
Resend Drafts
Reminder
Reminder
Confirmation of Receipt
Copied on
Communications
Copied on
Communications
Copied on
Communications
Copied on
Communications
Request for Pay Grade
Evaluation

Dr. Thomas Gilson,
ME

Page 67 of 125

 CUYAHOGA COUNTY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION
Class Title:
FLSA:
Dept:

Forensic Photographer
Non-Exempt
Medical Examiner’s Office

Class Number:
Pay Grade:

12211
6A

Classification Function
The purpose of this classification is to photograph a variety of scenes, subjects, and materials including
physical evidence provided by law enforcement and to process all image files for investigative, scientific,
and court presentation purposes.
Distinguishing Characteristics
This is an entry-level classification working under general supervision of the Chief Forensic
Photographer. Positions in this class independently perform recurring, well-precedented tasks using
standard methods and techniques. Incumbents establish and maintain quality control and ensure proper
preservation and documentation of photographs. Employees receive instruction or assistance as new or
unusual situations arise and are expected to become/remain up-to-date regarding methods, protocols,
procedures, and applicable regulations. Position is considered essential and remains on-call 24 hours a
day and during holidays and County closures.
Essential Job Functions
The following duties are normal for this classification. These are not to be construed as exclusive
or all-inclusive. Other duties may be required and assigned.








50% +/- 10%
Photographs a variety of subjects and materials including crime scenes, decedents, autopsies,
clothing, property, specimen, vehicles, or other physical evidence; documents photographic
processes and procedures; follows chain of custody with photographic evidence as necessary.
30% +/- 10%
Processes images in multiple file types using a wide variety of software tools for investigative,
scientific, and court presentation purposes; processes raw image files from digital media cards;
processes property or digital media cards for other departments; copies files to digital media storage
devices (optical discs, USBs, etc.) and distributes upon request; prints photographs; uses a scanner
to digitize film, prints, and other copy work; assists with preparation and presentation of images for
reports and exhibits; prepares and maintains digital files in accordance with applicable policies and
procedures.
10% +/- 5%
Performs miscellaneous responsibilities related to photography laboratory; cleans and maintains
equipment; tracks inventory and supplies.
10% +/- 5%
Performs related administrative responsibilities; prepares various reports, records, and other
documents; responds to emails and phone calls; attends various trainings and meetings; keeps
abreast of current trends and technological developments in the field; conducts tours of photography
unit; instructs interns and provides demonstrations.

Effective Date: 07.28.2014
Last Modified: 07.28.2014

Page 68 of 125

 Forensic Photographer
Minimum Training and Experience Required to Perform Essential Job Functions


A bachelor’s degree in photography or related field with one (1) year of experience performing digital
and conventional photography in a studio or laboratory setting; or an equivalent combination of
education, training, and experience.



Valid Ohio driver's license, proof of automobile insurance, and a vehicle.

Additional Requirements


Adobe Photoshop, Extensis Portfolio, and Camera RAW are required. Additional competencies in
other photo software applications as needed.



Completion of FEMA ICS 100, 200, and 700 courses is required within probationary period (180
days).

Minimum Physical and Mental Abilities Required to Perform Essential Job Functions
Physical Requirements


Ability to operate a variety of automated office machines including computer and copier.



Ability to operate a variety of photographic equipment including digital cameras, tripods, strobes,
scanners, microscopes, and projectors.



Physical abilities to perform essential functions.

Supervisory Responsibilities


No supervisory responsibilities.

Mathematical Ability


Ability to add, subtract, multiply, divide, and calculate decimals and percentages.

Language Ability & Interpersonal Communication


Requires the ability to perform basic level of data analysis including the ability to review, classify,
categorize, prioritize and/or reference data, statutes and/or guidelines and/or group, rank, investigate,
and problem solve. Requires discretion in determining and referencing established standards to
recognize interactive effects and relationships.



Ability to comprehend a variety of informational documents including digital media cards, photograph
orders, diagrams, reports, film, image catalogues, list of Mugshots required, list of autopsied cases,
materials safety data sheets, and receiving book.



Ability to comprehend a variety of reference books and manuals including Quality Assurance Manual,
standard operating procedures, software and hardware manuals, safety manuals, Materials Safety
Data sheets, Training Manual, publications, equipment manuals, reference books, journals, and
employee handbook.

Page 69 of 125

Effective Date: 07.28.2014
Last Modified: 07.28.2014

 Forensic Photographer


Ability to prepare illustrations, optical discs, digital images, photographic prints, scanned image files,
PowerPoint presentations, standard operating procedures, and other job related documents using
prescribed format and conforming to all rules of punctuation, grammar, diction, and style.



Ability to record and deliver information, to explain procedures, to follow instructions, and to meet
deadlines.



Ability to use and interpret basic medical terminology and language.



Ability to communicate and to develop and maintain effective working relationships with other
departmental employees, supervisor, police department personnel, attorneys, and clerical staff.

Environmental Adaptability


Work is typically performed in an office/laboratory environment.



Work may involve exposure to strong odors, toxic agents, bodily fluids, electrical currents, and
laboratory equipment/machinery. Requires periodic on-site investigations that may occur in an indoor
or outside in changing locations, environments and conditions and at all times of day and night and
year. Conditions could include adverse weather or unsanitary environments and may require the use
of personal protective equipment, especially in disaster situations.

Cuyahoga County is an Equal Opportunity Employer. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the
County will provide reasonable accommodations to qualified individuals with disabilities and encourages both
prospective employees and incumbents to discuss potential accommodations with the employer.

Page 70 of 125

Effective Date: 07.28.2014
Last Modified: 07.28.2014

 CURRENT CLASSIFICATION
Class Number Classification Title
Laboratory Technician 12191
Toxicology

Department
MEO

FLSA Status
Non-Exempt

Pay Grade
5A

PROPOSED REVISED CLASSIFICATION
Class Number Classification Title
Laboratory Technician 12191
Toxicology

Department
MEO

FLSA Status
Non-Exempt

Pay Grade
5A

Requested By:

Personnel Review Commission

Rationale:

PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised in 2014. The essential job
functions, language, formatting, minimum qualifications, physical
requirements and environmental adaptability were updated. No change to pay
grade or FLSA status.

No. of Employees
Affected:

One

Dept.(s) Affected:

Medical Examiner’s Office

Fiscal Impact:

None

Staffing
Implications:

None

PRC Contact(s):

Verona Blonde, Classification and Compensation Specialist
Albert Bouchahine, Manager of Classification and Compensation

Page 71 of 125

 Human Resources
and Management
Contact(s):
Eric Lavins,
Supervisory –
Toxicology
Laboratory
Dr. Luiginio
Apollonio, Chief
Toxicologist
Jim Battigaglia –
Archer Consultant

Date of Contact:

Type of Contact:

Reason:

7/16/2019
8/14/2019
8/22/2019

Email
Email
Email

Review of Final Draft
Reminder
Confirmation of Receipt

7/16/2019
8/14/2019
8/22/2019
9/10/2019

Email
Email
Email
Email

Review of Final Draft
Reminder
Confirmation of Receipt
Request for Pay Grade
Evaluation

Page 72 of 125

 CUYAHOGA COUNTY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION
Class Title:
FLSA:
Dept:

Laboratory Technician- Toxicology
Non-Exempt
Medical Examiner’s Office

Class Number:
Pay Grade:

12191
5A

Classification Function
The purpose of this classification is to facilitate work in the toxicology laboratory by performing a variety
of administrative, routine testing, laboratory cleaning, supply disposal, and restocking responsibilities.
Distinguishing Characteristics
This is an entry level classification. Employees in this class initially receive immediate supervision then
progressing to general supervision as the incumbents become able to work independently to perform the
full range of duties associated with this classification. Assignments are limited in scope, contain fairly
routine tasks, and are performed within a procedural framework established by higher level employees.
This position does not supervise but may instruct or train other employees.
Essential Job Functions
The following duties are normal for this classification. These are not to be construed as exclusive
or all-inclusive. Other duties may be required and assigned.








35% +/- 10%
Receives, sorts, and stores physical evidence submitted by law enforcement agencies and forensic
pathologists; verifies accuracy of evidence submission forms; enters submitted items into tracking
system; maintains chain of custody; performs variety of laboratory functions and/or prepares testing
on evidence; releases evidence to appropriate agency upon completion of analysis; monitors transfer
of evidence and submission release records; analyzes carboxyhemoglobin for STAT and routine
determinations using appropriate analytical techniques and instrumentation; performs/assists
Forensic Scientists with other routine testing.
20% +/- 10%
Ensures policies and procedures relative to storage and disposal of submitted evidence; manages
proper storage of submitted evidence in process of examination in the laboratory; maintains
integrity of evidence storage rooms, refrigerators, and freezers; prepares and verifies evidence and
packaging before transferring to offsite storage; transports and retrieves evidence from offsite
storage facility as needed; verifies and documents temperatures of evidence storage areas as
required by forensic accreditation boards, associations, and laboratory policies.
15% +/- 5%
Enters case results in the information management system based on a testing hierarchy; assists with
locating specimens for analysis; prepares specimen collection tubes for Receiving Department and
Autopsy Room; acts as the primary person responsible for preparing shipping packages and sending
cases out to reference laboratories for testing.
15% +/- 5%
Assists laboratory staff with cleaning of the laboratory, washing glassware and miscellaneous duties
as necessary; maintains laboratory cleanliness by wiping counter surfaces, fume hoods leans and
putting away glassware; assists the Quality Assurance Officer and other laboratory staff with walk in
refrigerator/freezer organization and evidence sealing; organizes, maintains, and disposes of
specimens in the refrigerator and freezer; replaces full biohazard/sharps containers with clean ones
Page 73 of 125

Effective Date: 07.28.2014
Last Modified: 07.28.2014

 Laboratory Technician
and maintains laboratory cleanliness; seals and removes biohazard trash, as needed; provides clean
unused biohazard, sharps, and glass trash boxes/containers in Extraction and Instrument rooms.




10% +/- 5%
Prepares a variety of submission, inventory and release documentation; operates computer system,
entering data and records into computer system; prepares paper and electronic inventories; prepares
evidence release forms; releases evidence to law enforcement agencies, courts, prosecutor’s office,
and other submitting agencies at appropriate times; obtains necessary signatures on release
documents; assists with maintenance of records related to room/refrigerator/freezer temperature(s)
and hood flow velocity; provides administrative and technical assistance; assists with copying and
filing of data; assists with putting away and organizing laboratory supplies.
5% +/- 2%
Testifies in court regarding evidence chain of custody issues as required; trains and instructs other
employees and interns on performance of Laboratory Technician duties.

Minimum Training and Experience Required to Perform Essential Job Functions


High school diploma or equivalent and two (2) years experience in performing clerical and inventory
control duties; or any equivalent combination of education, training, and experience.

Additional Requirements


Completion of FEMA ICS 100, 200, and 700 courses is required within probationary period (180
days).

Minimum Physical and Mental Abilities Required to Perform Essential Job Functions
Physical Requirements


Ability to operate a variety of automated office machines including computers and peripheral
equipment; ability to use a limited variety of automated laboratory machines and laboratory tools and
supplies.



Ability to stand and walk for a prolonged period of time and ability to push, pull, or lift up to 20 lbs.

Supervisory Responsibilities


No supervisory responsibilities.

Mathematical Ability


Ability to add, subtract, multiply, divide, and calculate percentages and decimals.

Language Ability & Interpersonal Communication


Requires the ability to perform basic level of data analysis including the ability to review, classify,
categorize, prioritize and/or reference data, statutes, and/or guidelines and/or group, rank,
investigate, and problem solve. Requires discretion in determining and referencing established
standards to recognize interactive effects and relationships.



Demonstrated technical proficiency and theoretical knowledge sufficient to perform the laboratory
functions assigned.
Page 74 of 125

Effective Date: 07.28.2014
Last Modified: 07.28.2014

 Laboratory Technician


Ability to comprehend a variety of informational documents including evidence submission and
release forms, paper and electronic inventories, chain of custody forms, toxicology medicine reports,
and autopsy submission forms.



Ability to comprehend a variety of reference books and manuals including Employee Handbook,
personnel manuals, Assay Manual, Lab Quality Assurance Manual, and Standard Operating
Procedure manual.



Ability to prepare Evidence Submission, Release and Transfer documents, Log Books, paper and
electronic inventory records, and other job related documents using prescribed format and
conforming to all rules of punctuation, grammar, diction, and style.



Ability to record and deliver information, to explain procedures, and to follow instructions.



Ability to use and interpret basic legal and forensic terminology.



Ability to communicate with supervisor, family members of the deceased, funeral homes personnel,
law enforcement personnel, nursing home staff, and other departmental employees and
administrators.

Environmental Adaptability


Work is typically performed in an indoor environment.



Work will also involve entering and working in “walk-in” refrigerator and freezer environments for short
periods of time.



Work may involve exposure to temperature extremes, strong odors, toxic/poisonous agents, and
disease/bodily fluids.

Cuyahoga County is an Equal Opportunity Employer. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the
County will provide reasonable accommodations to qualified individuals with disabilities and encourages both
prospective employees and incumbents to discuss potential accommodations with the employer.

Page 75 of 125

Effective Date: 07.28.2014
Last Modified: 07.28.2014

 CURRENT CLASSIFICATION
Class Number Classification Title
15073

Department

Manager, Fleet Services

Public Works

FLSA Status
Exempt

Pay Grade
13A

PROPOSED REVISED CLASSIFICATION
Class Number Classification Title
15073

Department

Manager, Fleet Services

Public Works

FLSA Status
Exempt

Pay Grade
13A

Requested By:

Personnel Review Commission

Rationale:

PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised on 2/13/2019. The
essential job functions, minimum qualifications, language, and formatting
were updated to be consistent with the lower level position. No change to pay
grade or FLSA status.

No. of Employees
Affected:

One

Dept.(s) Affected:

Public Works

Fiscal Impact:

None

Staffing
Implications:

None

PRC Contact(s):

Verona Blonde, Classification and Compensation Specialist
Albert Bouchahine, Manager of Classification and Compensation

Page 76 of 125

 Human Resources
and Management
Contact(s):
Brian Stapleton,
Chief Maintenance
Administrator

Michael Dever,
Director of PW
Jim Battigaglia –
Archer Consultant

Date of Contact:

Type of Contact:

Reason:

5/31/2019

Email

6/13/2019
7/1/2019
7/16/2019
7/20/2019
7/16/2019

Email
Email
Email
Email
Email

8/13/2019

Email

Questions Regarding
Minimum Quals
Reminder
Reminder
Review of Final Draft
Clarification
Copied on
Communications
Request for Pay Grade
Evaluation

Page 77 of 125

 CUYAHOGA COUNTY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION
Class Title:
FLSA:
Dept:

Manager, Fleet Services
Exempt
Public Works

Class Number:
Pay Grade:

15073
13A

Classification Function
The purpose of this classification is to plan, oversee and coordinate all tasks related to the operation of
the fleet services, equipment, and related facilities for the Department of Public Works.
Distinguishing Characteristics
This is a management classification working under general supervision of the Chief Deputy –
Maintenance. This class works within a framework of policies, procedures, regulations, and laws and the
employee exercises discretion and judgment in developing strategic plans, goals and objectives, making
budget recommendations, directing operations and programs through subordinate supervisors and staff,
and evaluating effectiveness and implementing corrective changes. The class of Manager, Fleet Services
is distinguished from the class of Supervisor, Fleet Services in that the latter classification is limited to
overseeing activities primarily related to maintenance and repair and does not have responsibility for
budget management or ensuring the Fleet Services’ overall efficiency.
Essential Job Functions
The following duties are normal for this classification. These are not to be construed as exclusive
or all-inclusive. Other duties may be required and assigned.






25% +/- 10%
Plans, oversees and directs the maintenance, repair, and overhaul of vehicles and heavy automotive
equipment; assesses and schedules work to be performed by vendors including recalls, warranty,
and insurance repairs; defines scope of work and obtains quotes for contract services when
necessary; performs research for new and replacement vehicles and large capital equipment
purchases; reviews new equipment specifications; creates and executes the capital equipment
replacement schedule for all departments in the County; monitors and maintains inventory levels;
approves invoices; oversees preventative maintenance programs; keeps detailed records of
maintenance, repairs, and warranty information of all fleet vehicles and equipment.
25% +/- 10%
Supervises and directs the work of lower-level supervisors and other department staff; directs staff to
ensure work completion and maintenance of standards; plans, assigns, and reviews work; provides
training and instruction; evaluates employee performance; responds to employee questions,
concerns, and problems; approves employee timesheets and leave requests; prepares and reviews
documents related to payroll, timesheets, requests for leave and overtime; develops unit work plans
and work performance standards; monitors and provides for training needs; meets with employees
individually and as a unit; recommends personnel actions including selection, promotion, transfer,
discipline, or discharge.
20% +/- 10%
Oversees operation, maintenance, and regulatory compliance of diesel and unleaded fuel delivery
systems; performs Bureau of Underground Storage Tank Regulations (BUSTR) inspections; updates
maintenance records; repairs above and below ground storage systems; maintains an updated and
active Spill Prevention Control and Countermeasure Program; oversees environmental reporting for
fleet and related equipment and materials; coordinates E-check reporting to Ohio EPA.
Page 78 of 125

Established: 7/10/2012
Last Modified: 2/13/2019

 Fleet Services Manager








10% +/- 5%
Participates in preparation of fleet department’s annual budget and oversees use; gathers and
analyzes operations and financial data regarding all facets of fleet operations; makes
recommendations regarding budget to fund operations and increase efficiency; prepares and reviews
labor and materials cost estimates for proposed fleet work; investigates, creates specifications, and
makes recommendations for the purchase of new equipment and modifications to existing equipment;
makes recommendations and oversees fleet services purchases including materials, parts,
equipment, and tools; records and provides charge back information to the fiscal division; prepares
purchase orders.
5% +/- 2%
Assesses fleet services’ effectiveness and efficiency; identifies best business practices; maintains
policies and procedures manual; assures safe work practices and compliance with all local, state,
and federal regulatory requirements; identifies and directs corrective actions; implements strategic
policy and administrative changes to maximize use of resources and achieve goals and objectives.
5% +/- 2%
Directs and oversees various programs including the County Fuel Card program and County GPS
program; logs, tracks, and documents County vehicle license plates and maintains titles; oversees
auction and disposal of all obsolete County vehicles and equipment; manages repairs of the
Homeland security trailers for the Department of Justice Affairs.
10% +/- 5%
Performs related administrative responsibilities; prepares various reports, records, and other
documents; responds to emails and phone calls; attends various trainings and meetings; remains oncall 24 hours a day to respond to emergency or urgent situations.

Minimum Training and Experience Required to Perform Essential Job Functions


Associate degree in business administration, industrial management, automotive technology, or
related field and six (6) years of auto mechanics experience; or an equivalent combination of
education, training, and experience.



Automotive Service Excellence (ASE) Master Automotive Technician Certification in auto mechanics
and Medium/Heavy Duty Truck; or equivalent.



Valid driver’s license and proof of automobile insurance.

Additional Requirements


Must obtain and maintain a Class “B” Underground Storage Tank (UST) Operator Certification within
six (6) months of hire date.



Must obtain an EPA Section 609 MVAC Certification within six (6) months of hire date.

Minimum Physical and Mental Abilities Required to Perform Essential Job Functions
Physical Requirements


Ability to operate a variety of automated office machines including computer and copier.



Ability to operate various motor vehicles including automobiles, vans, and pick-up trucks.



Ability to utilize automobile diagnostic and maintenance equipment, tools, and supplies.
Page 79 of 125

Established: 7/10/2012
Last Modified: 2/13/2019

 Fleet Services Manager


Ability to crawl, crouch, bend, twist, and lift, push, or pull up to 50lbs.

Supervisory Responsibilities


Ability to assign, review, plan and coordinate the work of other employees and to maintain standards.



Ability to provide instruction and training to other employees.



Ability to solve and act on employee problems.



Ability to recommend the transfer, selection, evaluation, or promotion of employees.



Ability to recommend the discipline or discharge of employees.

Mathematical Ability


Ability to add, subtract, multiply, divide, and calculate decimals and percentages.

Language Ability & Interpersonal Communication


Ability to perform mid-level data analysis including the ability to audit, deduce, assess, conclude and
appraise. Requires discretion in determining and referencing established criteria to define
consequences and develop alternatives.



Ability to comprehend a variety of informational documents including invoices, vehicle repair work
orders, preventative maintenance schedules, attendance reports, leave request forms, inventory
reports, drawings, forms, proposals, plans, certifications, and reports.



Ability to comprehend a variety of reference books and manuals including reference manuals, ORC,
ODOT manuals, policy manuals, service and repair manuals, union contracts, catalogs,
specifications, standards, guidelines, and codes.



Ability to prepare Council actions, contract modifications, certifications, memos, correspondence,
agreements, performance evaluations, grievance forms, inspections, reports, plans, estimates, and
other job-related documents using prescribed format and conforming to all rules of punctuation,
grammar, diction and style.



Ability to supervise, convince and influence others, to record and deliver information, to explain
procedures, to follow instructions.



Ability to develop and maintain effective working relationships with a variety of individuals within and
outside the Department.



Ability to use and interpret legal, mechanical, and budgeting terminology and language.



Ability to communicate with staff, department directors, vendors, suppliers, dealers, other County
employees, and the general public.

Environmental Adaptability


Work is typically performed in a maintenance garage environment.



Work may involve exposure to strong odors, smoke, electrical currents, noise extremes, vibrations,
and machinery.
Page 80 of 125

Established: 7/10/2012
Last Modified: 2/13/2019

 Fleet Services Manager
Cuyahoga County is an Equal Opportunity Employer. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the
County will provide reasonable accommodations to qualified individuals with disabilities and encourages both
prospective employees and incumbents to discuss potential accommodations with the employer.

Page 81 of 125

Established: 7/10/2012
Last Modified: 2/13/2019

 CURRENT CLASSIFICATION
Class Number Classification Title
17021

Medical Records Technician

Department
Health and
Human Services

FLSA Status
Non-Exempt

Pay Grade
6A

PROPOSED REVISED CLASSIFICATION
Class Number Classification Title
17021

Medical Records Technician

Department
Health and
Human Services

FLSA Status
Non-Exempt

Pay Grade
6A

Requested By:

Personnel Review Commission

Rationale:

PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised in 2019. The education
and experience requirements were updated. No change to pay grade or FLSA
status

No. of Employees
Affected:

One

Dept.(s) Affected:

Health and Human Services

Fiscal Impact:

None

Staffing
Implications:

None

PRC Contact(s):

David Mizuta, Classification and Compensation Specialist
Albert Bouchahine, Manager of Classification and Compensation

Page 82 of 125

 Human Resources
and Management
Contact(s):
Darlene Wade,
Deputy
Administrator
Darlene Wade,
Deputy
Administrator
Darlene Wade,
Deputy
Administrator &
David Smith, Director
of Nursing
Darlene Wade,
Deputy
Administrator &
David Smith, Director
of Nursing
Jim Battigaglia,
Archer Consultant

Date of Contact:

Type of Contact:

Reason:

07/08/2019

Email

Ask questions about
questionnaire

07/29/2019

Email

07/30/2019

Email

Asked questions about
incumbent’s
certification
Sent drafted
specification for review

08/13/2019

Email

Reminder

09/10/2019

Email

Pay grade evaluation

Page 83 of 125

 CUYAHOGA COUNTY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION
Class Title:
FLSA:
Dept:

Medical Records Technician
Non-Exempt
Health and Human Services

Class Number:
Pay Grade:

17021
6A

Classification Function
The purpose of this classification is to maintain and account for medical records, chart audits, discharge
records, storage of records, and current list of discharges in accordance with State and Federal
guidelines for certification and reimbursement.
Distinguishing Characteristics
This is an entry level classification that is responsible for maintaining medical records, chart audits, and
various other records. This classification works under a framework of well-defined procedures. This class
requires a limited exercise of judgment and consults with a supervisor as new or unusual situations arise.
Essential Job Functions
The following duties are normal for this classification. These are not to be construed as exclusive
or all-inclusive. Other duties may be required and assigned.




60% +/- 10%
Maintains and accounts for medical records, chart audits, discharge records, storage of records,
and current list of discharges, in accordance with State and Federal guidelines for certification
and reimbursement; maintains charts; audits and analyzes charts; codes diagnoses; prepares
charts for admission and re-admission; maintains resident tickler file; prepares minimum data set
for annual update; maintains chart overflow; maintains discharge chart files; documents
deficiencies in patient charts; purges old records; maintains log of destroyed records; maintains
diagnoses index; safeguards the confidentiality of clinical records; organizes and closes-out
discharge charts; pulls files for nursing and other care giver staff.
40% +/- 10%
Performs related administrative duties; drafts policies and procedures for medical records and
maintains policy and procedure manuals; attends staff meetings, workshops, and seminars;
serves on various committees; acts as consultant on medical record keeping procedures and
problems; makes court appearances or represents agency in litigation when medical records are
subpoenaed for evidence; provides training in proper procedures for appropriate agency
personnel; assists in maintaining liaison between processing function and other functions within
agency to develop effective working relationship; gathers and analyzes raw statistical data to
compile into report form; develops reporting instruments such as forms, charts, and tables; makes
resident identification cards; manages medical supplies inventory.

Minimum Training and Experience Required to Perform Essential Job Functions


High School Diploma or equivalent, and 1 year of electronic health records, medical documentation,
clerical, or administrative experience; or an equivalent combination of education, training, and
experience.



Certified Medical Billing and Coding Specialist, or an equivalent certification is required.

Additional Requirements for all levels
Page 84 of 125

Effective Date: 1993
Last Modified: 02.13.2019

 Medical Records Technician



No special license or certification is required.

Minimum Physical and Mental Abilities Required to Perform Essential Job Functions
Physical Requirements


Ability to operate a variety of automated office machines including computer and copier.

Supervisory Responsibilities


No supervisory responsibilities.

Mathematical Ability


Ability to add, subtract, multiply, divide and calculate decimals and percentages.

Language Ability & Interpersonal Communication


Requires the ability to perform basic level of data analysis including the ability to review, classify,
categorize, prioritize and/or reference data, statutes and/or guidelines and/or group, rank, investigate
and problem solve. Requires discretion in determining and referencing such to established standards
to recognize interactive effects and relationships.



Ability to comprehend a variety of informational documents including patient records, minimum data
set (MDS), information request, and other reports and records.



Ability to comprehend a variety of reference books and manuals including Employee Handbook, ICD10-CM Codes, OBRA 87 Manual, Medicare Manual, medical textbooks, and computer handbooks.



Ability to prepare audit reports, patient records, diagnosis lists, admission and discharge registries
memos, correspondence, and other job-related documents using prescribed format and conforming
to all rules of punctuation, grammar, diction, and style.



Ability to convince and influence others, to record and deliver information, to explain procedures, and
to follow instructions.



Ability to use and interpret medical terminology and language.



Ability to communicate effectively with physicians, nursing staff, social service personnel,
administrator, other County employees and the general public.

Environmental Adaptability


Work is typically performed in an office environment.

Cuyahoga County is an Equal Opportunity Employer. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the
County will provide reasonable accommodations to qualified individuals with disabilities and encourages both
prospective employees and incumbents to discuss potential accommodations with the employer.

Page 85 of 125

Effective Date: 1993
Last Modified: 02.13.2019

 CURRENT CLASSIFICATION
Class Number Classification Title
Residential/Agricultural
20011
Appraisal Coordinator

Department
Fiscal Office

FLSA Status
Exempt

Pay Grade
13A

PROPOSED REVISED CLASSIFICATION
Class Number Classification Title
Residential/Agricultural
20011
Appraisal Coordinator

Department
Fiscal Office

FLSA Status
Exempt

Pay Grade
13A

Requested By:

Personnel Review Commission

Rationale:

PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised in 2012. The language,
and formatting were updated. No change to pay grade or FLSA status.

No. of Employees
Affected:

One

Dept.(s) Affected:

Fiscal Office

Fiscal Impact:

None

Staffing
Implications:

None

PRC Contact(s):

Verona Blonde, Classification and Compensation Specialist
Albert Bouchahine, Manager of Classification and Compensation

Page 86 of 125

 Human Resources
and Management
Contact(s):
Daniel Harbaugh,
Director of Appraisal
Neil Winans,
Manager, R/A
Appraisal
Jim Battigaglia –
Archer Consultant

Date of Contact:

Type of Contact:

Reason:

7/30/2019

Email

7/30/2019
7/30/2019

Email
Email

7/30/2019
8/13/2019

Email
Email

Clarification Regarding
Minimum Qualifications
Review of Final Draft
Clarification Regarding
Minimum Qualifications
Review of Final Draft
Request for Pay Grade
Evaluation

Page 87 of 125

 CUYAHOGA COUNTY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION
Class Title:
FLSA:
Dept:

Residential/Agricultural Appraiser Coordinator
Exempt
Fiscal Office

Class Number:
Pay Grade:

20011

13A

Classification Function
The purpose of this classification is to supervise, coordinate, and participate in residential,
condominium, and agricultural property annual maintenance and valuation appraisal for tax purposes.
Distinguishing Characteristics
This is a supervisor level classification with responsibility for supervising, coordinating, and performing
technical activities in the Real Estate Appraisal division of the County Fiscal Office. This class works
under general direction of the Manager, Residential/Agricultural Appraisal and receives direction from
management in the form of broad objectives or as new or unusual situations arise. The employee works
within a framework of established laws, regulations, policies, and procedures. Incumbents ensure that
responsibilities are completed in a timely manner and adhere to applicable standards and regulations.
Essential Job Functions
The following duties are normal for this classification. These are not to be construed as
exclusive or all-inclusive. Other duties may be required and assigned.








30% +/- 10%
Supervises staff in performance of annual maintenance for a variety of properties including new
condominium and conversion data collection, neighborhood maintenance, sales verification, parcel
accounting, quality control, sub-register splits and consolidations, and new construction; dispatches
appraisers and field staff to places of work; directs staff to ensure work completion and
maintenance of standards; plans, assigns, and reviews work; provides training and instruction;
evaluates employee performance; responds to employee questions, concerns, and problems;
approves employee timesheets and leave requests; prepares and reviews documents related to
timesheets, requests for leave and overtime; develops unit work plans and work performance
standards; monitors and provides for training needs; meets with employees individually and as a
unit; recommends personnel actions including selection, promotion, transfer, discipline, or
discharge.
30% +/- 10%
Oversees and participates in the appraisal of agricultural and residential properties; completes
parcel accounting of any errors or omissions of value or characteristics on residential properties;
develops forms and information sheets; maintains schedules of deadlines and activities and
develops new data and valuations during update and re-appraisal years.
20% +/- 10%
Determines the value of residential property in the County; researches property information and
performs field inspections of new construction and major improvements to existing structures for
value determination; handles petitions to change values.
20% +/- 10%
Communicates with builders, sales office staff, condominium associations, building departments,
taxpayers, realty offices and internet realty sites; provides information, answers questions and
resolves complaints by phone, mails and the internet regarding property characteristics and value;

Page 88 of 125

Effective Date: 12.06.2011
Last Modified: 04.10.2012

 Residential/Agricultural Appraisal Coordinator
reports progress and production to managers; attends meetings with supervisors and managers of
other divisions.
Minimum Training and Experience Required to Perform Essential Job Functions


Bachelor’s degree in finance, economics, business or a related field with five (5) years of experience
in real estate, appraisal, property valuation, finance or related field; or an equivalent combination of
education, training, and experience.

Additional Requirements


Real Estate Appraiser certification is required.

Minimum Physical and Mental Abilities Required to Perform Essential Job Functions
Physical Requirements


Ability to operate a variety of automated office machines including computers and peripheral
equipment.

Supervisory Responsibilities


Ability to assign, review, plan and coordinate the work of other employees and to maintain
standards.



Ability to provide instruction and training to other employees.



Ability to solve and act on employee problems.



Ability to recommend the transfer, selection, evaluation, or promotion of employees.



Ability to recommend and act on the discipline or discharge of employees.

Mathematical Ability


Ability to add, subtract, multiply, divide and calculate decimals and percentages, and perform
routine statistics.

Language Ability & Interpersonal Communication


Requires the ability to perform mid-level data analysis including the ability to audit, deduce, assess,
conclude and appraise. Requires discretion in determining and referencing established criteria to
define consequences and develop alternatives.



Ability to comprehend a variety of informational documents including production sheets, mileage
sheets, property inspections, tax bills, certificates, lists, and letters.



Ability to comprehend a variety of reference books and manuals including computer manuals, new
construction manual, the Ohio Revised Code (ORC), tax appeals, plat maps, zoning maps, tax rate
book, appraisal manual, procedures, and policy manual.



Ability to prepare weekly production report, planned production report, sales verification, appraisals,
training manuals, reports, forms, lists, correspondence, and other job-related documents using
prescribed format and conforming to all rules of punctuation, grammar, diction, and style.
Page 89 of 125

Effective Date: 12.06.2011
Last Modified: 04.10.2012

 Residential/Agricultural Appraisal Coordinator


Ability to develop and maintain effective working relationships with a variety of individuals within and
outside the Department.



Ability to use and interpret legal and real property appraisal terminology and language.



Ability to communicate with taxpayers, data collectors, co-workers, supervisors, other County
employees, employees from other agencies, builders, property owners and property managers, and
attorneys.

Environmental Adaptability


Work is typically performed in an office environment.

Cuyahoga County is an Equal Opportunity Employer. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the
County will provide reasonable accommodations to qualified individuals with disabilities and encourages both
prospective employees and incumbents to discuss potential accommodations with the employer.

Page 90 of 125

Effective Date: 12.06.2011
Last Modified: 04.10.2012

 CURRENT CLASSIFICATION
Class Number Classification Title
15162

Department

Senior Printing Coordinator

Public Works

FLSA Status
Exempt

Pay Grade
11A

PROPOSED REVISED CLASSIFICATION
Class Number Classification Title
15162

Department

Manager, Print Production

Public Works

FLSA Status
Exempt

Pay Grade
11A

Requested By:

Personnel Review Commission

Rationale:

PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised in 2016. The title,
essential job functions, minimum qualifications, language, and formatting
were updated. No change to pay grade or FLSA status.

No. of Employees
Affected:

One

Dept.(s) Affected:

Public Works

Fiscal Impact:

None

Staffing
Implications:

None

PRC Contact(s):

Verona Blonde, Classification and Compensation Specialist
Albert Bouchahine, Manager of Classification and Compensation

Page 91 of 125

 Human Resources
and Management
Contact(s):
Michael Chambers,
Fiscal Officer

Michael Dever,
Director of PW
Jim Battigaglia –
Archer Consultant

Date of Contact:

Type of Contact:

Reason:

6/28/2019

Email

7/16/2019
7/30/2019
7/25/2019
7/31/2019
8/13/2019

Email
Email
Email
Email
Email

Review of Final Draft
and suggestion of Title
Change
Reminder
Reminder
Copied on
Communications
Request for Pay Grade
Evaluation

Page 92 of 125

 CUYAHOGA COUNTY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION
Class Title:
FLSA:
Dept:

Manager, Print Production
Exempt
Public Works

Class Number:
Pay Grade:

15162
11A

Classification Function
The purpose of this classification is to provide print services to County departments and supervise staff
in the printing and reproduction department.
Distinguishing Characteristics
This is a level classification with responsibility for planning, directing, and controlling the printing and
reproduction department. This position oversees the operations and promotes the efficiencies of the
department, incorporates process improvements, and ensures that projects meet time and quality
objectives. Individuals in this position manage a small number of employees. This position has input
into setting a budget and is responsible for staying within an assigned budget. This class is
distinguished from the Printing Coordinator in that it supervises the latter position and has responsibility
for overall management of the department.
Essential Job Functions
The following duties are normal for this classification. These are not to be construed as
exclusive or all-inclusive. Other duties may be required and assigned.


•

•

•

35% +/- 10%
Supervises staff of printing and reproduction division; directs staff to ensure work completion
and maintenance of standards; plans, assigns, and reviews work; provides training and
instruction; evaluates employee performance; responds to employee questions, concerns, and
problems; approves employee timesheets and leave requests; prepares and reviews documents
related to payroll, timesheets, requests for leave and overtime; develops unit work plans and
work performance standards; monitors and provides for training needs; meets with employees
individually and as a unit; recommends personnel actions including selection, promotion,
transfer, discipline, or discharge.
30% +/- 10%
Prepares bid and contract specifications; prepares invitation to bid (ITB); prepares request for
proposal (RFP) for the County’s print management contract; monitors contract funding; reviews
and approves contract payments; performs financial and administrative duties of contract.
10% +/- 5%
Provides print services to County departments; provides consulting services for County
agencies regarding printing requisitions; provides estimates, time frames, and procures
materials for projects; prepares, reviews, and processes print job specifications; processes
printing request to meet client’s requirements; coordinates the production of printing orders
throughout the entire printing process.
10% +/- 5%
Maintains and oversees the division operating budget; prepares, reviews, and presents pricing
model for division cost recovery; prepares and maintains a database of internal charges to County
agencies; prepares reports of division activities; reviews, performs, and approves accounts payable;
identifies operating and capital budget needs.
Page 93 of 125

Effective Date: 2006
Last Modified: 10.13.2016

 Senior Printing Coordinator

•

15% +/- 10%
Performs related administrative responsibilities; prepares various reports, records, and other
documents; responds to emails and phone calls; attends various trainings and meetings;
performes agency assessments for placement of copiers and/or network printers; prepares,
recommends, and assists with all copier additions, removals, moves, and configuration updates;
maintains database containing all equipment models, locations, contacts, and average monthly
volumes.

Minimum Training and Experience Required to Perform Essential Job Functions


High school diploma or equivalent with five (5) years of print production, printing services, graphic
communications, or related experience; or any equivalent combination of education, training,

and experience.


Valid Ohio driver license, proof of automobile insurance, and a reliable vehicle.

Additional Requirements


No special license or certification is required.

Minimum Physical and Mental Abilities Required to Perform Essential Job Functions
Physical Requirements


Ability to operate a variety of automated office machines and specialized printing equipment.



Ability to sit, stand, and walk for prolonged periods of time and push, pull, or lift up to 100 pounds.

Supervisory Responsibilities


Ability to assign, review, plan, and coordinate the work of other employees and to maintain
standards.



Ability to provide instruction and training to other employees.



Ability to solve and act on employee problems.



Ability to recommend the transfer, selection, evaluation, or promotion of employees.



Ability to recommend and act on the discipline or discharge of employees.

Mathematical Ability


Ability to add, subtract, multiply, divide, calculate decimals and percentages, and perform
routine statistics and basic algebra.

Language Ability & Interpersonal Communication


Requires the ability to perform mid-level data analysis including the ability to audit, deduce,
assess, conclude and appraise. Requires discretion in determining and referencing established
criteria to define consequences and develop alternatives.

Page 94 of 125

Effective Date: 2006
Last Modified: 10.13.2016

 Senior Printing Coordinator


Ability to comprehend a variety of informational documents including vendor invoices,
department orders, correspondence, in-house requisitions, checks, contract payments, requests
for quotes, personnel documents, and other reports and records.



Ability to comprehend a variety of reference books and manuals including equipment operation
manuals, legal dictionary, and Personnel Policies and Procedures Manual.



Ability to prepare print job specifications, invitations to bid, bid evaluation documents, reports
(i.e. – revenue reports, paper usage reports, photo copier volume reports, and expenditures
report), correspondence, personnel documents, customer invoices, and other job related
documents using prescribed format and conforming to all rules of punctuation, grammar, diction
and style.



Ability to supervise and counsel employees, to record and deliver information, to explain
procedures, and to follow instructions.



Ability to use and interpret print production, marketing, accounting, and contract terminology and
language.



Ability to communicate effectively with supervisors, vendors, customers, contractors, coworkers,
and other County employees.

Environmental Adaptability


Work is typically performed in the print shop.



Work may involve exposure to strong odors, machinery, and noise extremes.

Cuyahoga County is an Equal Opportunity Employer. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the
County will provide reasonable accommodations to qualified individuals with disabilities and encourages both
prospective employees and incumbents to discuss potential accommodations with the employer.

Page 95 of 125

Effective Date: 2006
Last Modified: 10.13.2016

 CURRENT CLASSIFICATION
Class Number Classification Title
17032

Department

Senior Supervisor, Nursing

Human Services

FLSA Status
Exempt

Pay Grade
12A

PROPOSED REVISED CLASSIFICATION
Class Number Classification Title
17032

Department

Senior Supervisor, Nursing

Human Services

FLSA Status
Exempt

Pay Grade
12A

Requested By:

Personnel Review Commission

Rationale:

PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised in 2015. The essential job
functions, language, and formatting were updated. No change to pay grade or
FLSA status.

No. of Employees
Affected:

One

Dept.(s) Affected:

Human Services & Sheriff

Fiscal Impact:

None

Staffing
Implications:

None

PRC Contact(s):

Verona Blonde, Classification and Compensation Specialist
Alex Hamame, Classification and Compensation Intern

Page 96 of 125

 Human Resources
and Management
Contact(s):
Tamara Mearig,
HR Manager

Date of Contact:

Type of Contact:

Reason:

8/8/2019

Email

Question Regarding
Essential Functions

Janice Belcher,
HR Generalist

8/8/2019

Email

Question Regarding
Essential Functions

David Smith,
Director, Nursing

8/21/2019
9/6/2019

Email
Email

Review of Final Draft
Reminder

Darlene Wade,
Assistant Executive
Deputy
Jim Battigaglia,
Archer Consultant

8/21/2019
9/6/2019

Email
Email

Review of Final Draft
Reminder

9/10/2019
9/26/2019

Email
Email

Request for Pay Grade
Evaluation
Reminder

Page 97 of 125

 CUYAHOGA COUNTY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION
Class Title:
FLSA:
Dept:

Senior Supervisor, Nursing
Exempt
Human Services

Class Number:
Pay Grade:

17032
12A

Classification Function
The purpose of this classification is to assist the Nursing Director with supervising Nursing Supervisors
and coordinating the home care skilled services programs.
Distinguishing Characteristics
This is a supervisory level classification responsible for coordinating and supervising care giving or
delivery of medical services. The class works under direction of the Director, Nursing and the incumbents
are expected to exercise discretion in applying policies and procedures to situations and in resolving dayto-day issues. Employees are expected to promote the efficiency of the unit, incorporate process
improvements, and ensure that assigned activities are completed in a timely and efficient manner.
Essential Job Functions
The following duties are normal for this classification. These are not to be construed as exclusive
or all-inclusive. Other duties may be required and assigned.






45% +/- 10%
Supervises and directs the work of the Nursing Supervisors and other assigned staff; directs staff to
ensure work completion and maintenance of standards; plans, assigns, and reviews work; provides
training and instruction; evaluates employee performance; responds to employee questions,
concerns, and problems; approves employee timesheets and leave requests; prepares and reviews
documents related to timesheets, requests for leave, and overtime; develops and monitors unit
work plans and work performance standards; monitors and provides for training needs; meets with
employees individually and as a unit; recommends personnel actions including selection,
promotion, transfer, discipline, or discharge.
25% +/- 10%
Monitors direct patient care and health status; monitors in-home clinical assessments; identifies
appropriate level of care following directions in the client’s plan of care; ensures the appropriate
documentation of information in all medical, client, and supervisory records; monitors and evaluates
performance of Home Health Aides; makes client visits; responds to client complaints and concerns.
15% +/- 5%
Develops and coordinates in-service training programs and independent study topics; develops
course curriculum; evaluates and modifies curriculum; supervises nurse trainers; ensures training
compliance with all regulatory requirements; conducts training programs; assists orienting new
employees; maintains training records.

15% +/- 5%

Page 98 of 125

Effective Date: 01.09.1999
Last Modified: 02.11.2015

 Senior Supervisor, Nursing


Performs related administrative responsibilities; prepares various reports, records, and other
documents; responds to emails and phone calls; attends various trainings and meetings; assists with
developing and monitoring quality assurance programs and compliance with program specifications;
monitors compliance and maintenance of records and forms in a timely manner; attends trainings,
conferences, and interagency and community meetings; develops and maintains policies and
procedures.

Minimum Training and Experience Required to Perform Essential Job Functions


Must be licensed as a registered nurse by the Ohio Board of Nursing.



Five (5) years of nursing experience including two (2) years in a supervisory capacity.

Additional Requirements


Biennial renewal of license required.

Minimum Physical and Mental Abilities Required to Perform Essential Job Functions
Physical Requirements


Ability to operate a variety of automated office machines including computer, fax, copier, typewriter,
etc.



Ability to use and operate a variety of nursing and medical equipment and tools including stethoscope,
intravenous pumps, sphygmomanometer, etc.



Ability to stand, walk, bend, twist and push and pull up to 200lbs (with assistance) and lift up to 50lbs.

Supervisory Responsibilities


Ability to assign, review, plan, and coordinate the work of other employees, and to maintain standards.



Ability to provide instruction to other employees.



Ability to solve and act on employee problems.



Ability to recommend the transfer, selection, evaluation, or promotion of employees.



Ability to recommend and act on the discipline or discharge of employees.

Mathematical Ability


Ability to add, subtract, multiply, divide, and calculate decimals and percentages.

Language Ability & Interpersonal Communication


Requires the ability to perform mid-level data analysis including the ability to evaluate, coordinate,
strategize, systemize, and correlate, using discretion in determining time, place and/or sequence of
operations within an organizational framework. Requires the ability to implement decisions based on
such data and overseeing the execution of these decisions.
Effective Date: 01.09.1999
Last Modified: 02.11.2015

Page 99 of 125

 Senior Supervisor, Nursing


Ability to comprehend a variety of informational documents including drug orders, laboratory reports,
client records, medical charts, nursing assignments, and other reports and records.



Ability to comprehend a variety of reference books and manuals including Employee Handbook,
medical books and desk references, lab referral reference, and policies and procedures manuals.



Ability to prepare training programs, quality assurance reports; nursing program reports, employee's
investigative reports, evaluations, schedules, and other job-related documents using prescribed
format and conforming to all rules of punctuation, grammar, diction, and style.



Ability to supervise, convince and influence others, to record and deliver information, to explain
procedures, to maintain confidentiality of restricted information, and to follow instructions.



Ability to use and interpret medical and counseling terminology and language.



Ability to communicate effectively with employees, supervisor, physicians, clients, families,
community groups, medical staff, law enforcement staff, other County employees, and the general
public.

Environmental Adaptability


Work is typically performed in a health care facility.

Cuyahoga County is an Equal Opportunity Employer. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the
County will provide reasonable accommodations to qualified individuals with disabilities and encourages both
prospective employees and incumbents to discuss potential accommodations with the employer.

Effective Date: 01.09.1999
Last Modified: 02.11.2015

Page 100 of 125

 CURRENT CLASSIFICATION
Class Number Classification Title
Supervisor, Drug Chemistry
12264
Laboratory

Department
MEO

FLSA Status
Exempt

Pay Grade
17A

PROPOSED REVISED CLASSIFICATION
Class Number Classification Title
Supervisor, Drug Chemistry
12264
Laboratory

Department
MEO

FLSA Status
Exempt

Pay Grade
17A

Requested By:

Personnel Review Commission

Rationale:

PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised in 2014. The essential job
functions, minimum requirements, language, formatting, physical
requirements, and environmental adaptability sections were updated. No
change to pay grade or FLSA status.

No. of Employees
Affected:

One

Dept.(s) Affected:

Medical Examiner’s Office

Fiscal Impact:

None

Staffing
Implications:

None

PRC Contact(s):

Verona Blonde, Classification and Compensation Specialist
Albert Bouchahine, Manager of Classification and Compensation

Page 101 of 125

 Human Resources
and Management
Contact(s):
Dr. Harmeet Kaur,
Managing Lab
Director and QA
Manager
Dr. Thomas Gilson,
County MEO
Hugh Shannon, MEO
Administrator
Jim Battigaglia –
Archer Consultant

Date of Contact:

Type of Contact:

Reason:

8/26/2019

Email

Review of Final Draft

8/26/2019

Email

Copied on
Communications

8/26/2019

Email

9/10/2019

Email

Copied on
Communications
Request for Pay Grade
Evaluation

Page 102 of 125

 CUYAHOGA COUNTY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION
Class Title:
FLSA:
Dept:

Supervisor, Drug Chemistry Laboratory
Exempt
Medical Examiner’s Office

Class Number:
Pay Grade:

12264
17A

Classification Function
The purpose of this classification is to supervise and participate in the daily operations of the Drug
Chemistry Department of the Medical Examiner’s Office, ensuring the proper handling and analysis of
evidence to detect poisonings and drug use in order to aid legal investigations of crimes and/or death.
Distinguishing Characteristics
This is a manager level classification. Incumbents in the class work under general supervision of the
Managing Laboratory Director and Quality Assurance Manager. This position oversees the operations
and promotes the efficiencies of the drug chemistry lab unit, incorporates process improvements, and
ensures that work meets time and quality objectives. The employee is responsible for ensuring proper
preservation and documentation of evidence and adherence to applicable laws, protocols, and
regulations. This class supervises Forensic Scientists and other assigned staff.
Essential Job Functions
The following duties are normal for this classification. These are not to be construed as exclusive
or all-inclusive. Other duties may be required and assigned.






55% +/- 10%
Performs administrative and technical case reviews; reviews technical laboratory records and results
of tests and examinations; reviews analysis worksheets, evidence submission forms, electronic
instrument, data, and final reports for accuracy and completeness; confers with Forensic Scientist in
cases of error or other problems; compiles/manages caseload statistics; researches information
regarding new drug compounds; stays up to date on changes in state and federal laws regarding drug
classifications and narcotic laws; provides court testimony as an expert witness.
20% +/- 10%
Supervises assigned staff; directs staff to ensure work completion and maintenance of standards;
plans, assigns, and reviews work; provides training and instruction; evaluates employee performance;
responds to employee questions, concerns, and problems; assists staff with complex or problem
situations; approves employee timesheets and leave requests; prepares and reviews documents
related to timesheets, requests for leave and overtime; develops and monitors unit work plans and
work performance standards; monitors and provides for training needs; meets with employees
individually and as a unit; recommends personnel actions including selection, promotion, transfer,
discipline, or discharge.
10% +/- 5%
Ensures that drug chemistry laboratory activities are completed on time and accurately; ensures drug
chemistry unit maintains compliance with applicable accreditation requirements; investigates
technical errors and provides recommendations on appropriate corrective and preventative
measures; provides troubleshooting services to resolve equipment, instrumentation, or analytical
method issues; implements and enforces quality assurance procedures; ensures that proper safety
procedures are followed; prepares necessary operating procedure paperwork.

Page 103 of 125

Effective Date: 07.28.2014
Last modified: 07.28.2014

 Supervisor, Drug Chemistry Laboratory




10% +/- 5%
Oversees regular maintenance of Drug Chemistry laboratory spaces and equipment; ensures that
supplies and equipment are available so that productivity is not interrupted; maintains and
troubleshoots laboratory instruments; ensures that supplies and reagents are ordered in a timely
fashion; reviews purchase orders for technical accuracy; ensures performance of equipment after
repairs, maintenance, or malfunction.
5% +/- 2%
Performs related administrative responsibilities; prepares and maintains various records and other
documents; responds to emails and phone calls; attends and participates in professional group
meetings, conferences, seminars, and trainings; keeps current on new trends, information, and
technology in the field; researches, validates, and implements new procedures; performs monthly
audits of controlled substance holding area.

Minimum Training and Experience Required to Perform Essential Job Functions


Bachelor’s degree in a chemical, physical, forensic, or biological science, or related field and six (6)
years of forensic drug chemistry experience; or an equivalent combination of education, training, and
experience.

Additional Requirements


Attainment of applicable scientific field certification.



Completion of FEMA ICS 100, 200, and 700 courses is required within probationary period (180
days).

Minimum Physical and Mental Abilities Required to Perform Essential Job Functions
Physical Requirements


Ability to operate a variety of automated office machines including computers and peripheral
equipment;



Ability to use a variety of laboratory tools and equipment, including a stereo microscope, analytical
balance, camera, gas chromatograph, mass spectrometer, and Fourier Transform Infrared
Spectrometer.



Ability to stand for a prolonged period of time and ability to lift up to 100 lbs. (with assistance).

Supervisory Responsibilities


Ability to assign, review, plan, and coordinate the work of other employees, and to maintain standards.



Ability to provide instruction and training to other employees.



Ability to solve and act on employee problems.



Ability to recommend the transfer, selection, evaluation, or promotion of employees.



Ability to recommend and act on the discipline or discharge of employees.

Page 104 of 125

Effective Date: 07.28.2014
Last modified: 07.28.2014

 Supervisor, Drug Chemistry Laboratory
Mathematical Ability


Ability to add, subtract, multiply, divide, calculate decimals and percentages, and perform routine
and advanced statistical analysis and college level algebra.

Language Ability & Interpersonal Communication


Requires the ability to perform mid to high level data analysis requiring managing of data and people
deciding the time, sequence of operations or events within the context of a process, system or
organization. Involves determining the necessity for revising goals, objectives, policies, procedures or
functions based on the analysis of data/information and includes performance reviews pertinent to
objectives, functions, and requirements.



Ability to comprehend a variety of informational documents including chain of custody records,
instrumental data, QA/QC records, equipment/instrumental maintenance records analysis
worksheets, evidence submission forms, electronic final reports, and log books.



Ability to comprehend a variety of reference books and manuals including the Employee Handbook,
Ohio Revised Code, Federal Drug Codes, ANSI-ASQ National Accreditation Board Standards,
SWGDRUG Guidelines, standard operating procedures, forensic science books and journals, training
manuals, instrument/equipment manual, safety manuals, quality assurance manuals, and code of
ethics.



Ability to prepare set records, competency test records, drug chemistry case records, evidence logs,
analytical results, forms, charts, correspondence, purchasing requests, quality control records for
assays, daily work log for staff, departmental memos, monthly caseload statistics, monthly audit
reports, performance appraisals, quality assurance data, and other job related documents using
prescribed format and conforming to all rules of punctuation, grammar, diction, and style.



Ability to supervise and counsel employees, convince and influence others, to record and deliver
information, to explain procedures, and to follow instructions.



Ability to use and interpret medical, scientific, and legal terminology and language.



Ability to communicate and to develop and maintain effective working relationships with section staff,
other departmental employees/managers, supervisor, prosecutor’s staff, law enforcement personnel,
attorneys, juries, and members of the public.

Environmental Adaptability


Work is typically performed in an office/laboratory environment.



Work may involve exposure to strong odors, toxic or poisonous agents, smoke, dust, disease, bodily
fluids, electrical currents, bright or dim lights, and laboratory equipment/machinery.

Cuyahoga County is an Equal Opportunity Employer. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the
County will provide reasonable accommodations to qualified individuals with disabilities and encourages both
prospective employees and incumbents to discuss potential accommodations with the employer.

Page 105 of 125

Effective Date: 07.28.2014
Last modified: 07.28.2014

 CURRENT CLASSIFICATION
Class Number Classification Title
15072

Department

Supervisor, Fleet Services

Public Works

FLSA Status
Exempt

Pay Grade
11A

PROPOSED REVISED CLASSIFICATION
Class Number Classification Title
15072

Department

Supervisor, Fleet Services

Public Works

FLSA Status
Exempt

Pay Grade
11A

Requested By:

Personnel Review Commission

Rationale:

PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised in 2012. The essential job
functions, minimum qualifications, language, and formatting were updated. No
change to pay grade or FLSA status.

No. of Employees
Affected:

One

Dept.(s) Affected:

Public Works

Fiscal Impact:

None

Staffing
Implications:

None

PRC Contact(s):

Verona Blonde, Classification and Compensation Specialist
Albert Bouchahine, Manager of Classification and Compensation

Page 106 of 125

 Human Resources
and Management
Contact(s):
Brian Stapleton,
Chief Maintenance
Administrator
John Pinter, Manager
– Fleet Services

Michael Dever,
Director of PW
Jim Battigaglia –
Archer Consultant

Date of Contact:

Type of Contact:

Reason:

5/31/2019

Email

6/13/2019
7/1/2019
7/16/2019
5/31/2019

Email
Email
Email
Email

6/13/2019
7/1/2019
7/16/2019
7/16/2019

Email
Email
Email
Email

8/13/2019

Email

Questions Regarding
Minimum Quals
Reminder
Reminder
Review of Final Draft
Questions Regarding
Minimum Quals
Reminder
Reminder
Review of Final Draft
Copied on
Communications
Request for Pay Grade
Evaluation

Page 107 of 125

 CUYAHOGA COUNTY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION
Class Title:
FLSA:
Dept:

Fleet Services Supervisor
Exempt
Public Works

Class Number:
Pay Grade:

15072
11A

Classification Function
The purpose of this classification is to supervise and direct the work of mechanics and other assigned
staff and oversee the maintenance and repair of County automotive and mechanic equipment and related
facilities.
Distinguishing Characteristics
This is a first-line supervisor classification working under general supervision of the Manager, Fleet
Services. This class works within a framework of policies, procedures, and regulations, and the employee
exercises discretion and judgment in supervising employees, overseeing the unit’s functioning, resolving
any service delivery problems, and ensuring compliance with applicable regulations and budgetary
restrictions.
Essential Job Functions
The following duties are normal for this classification. These are not to be construed as exclusive
or all-inclusive. Other duties may be required and assigned.






30% +/- 10%
Supervises and directs the work of mechanics and other assigned staff; directs staff to ensure work
completion and maintenance of standards; plans, assigns, and reviews work; provides training and
instruction; evaluates employee performance; responds to employee questions, concerns, and
problems; approves employee timesheets and leave requests; prepares and reviews documents
related to payroll, timesheets, requests for leave and overtime; develops unit work plans and work
performance standards; monitors and provides for training needs; meets with employees individually
and as a unit; recommends personnel actions including selection, promotion, transfer, discipline, or
discharge.
30% +/- 10%
Schedules and tracks vehicle maintenance and repairs; makes determination of necessary repairs to
underground storage tanks; applies labor charges for repair orders; orders required replacement
parts from correct vendors; analyzes body shop estimates and schedules repairs with body shops;
monitors and schedules vehicle warranty repairs and recalls; analyzes and produces preventative
maintenance reports for service scheduling; oversees snow plow and salt equipment preparation,
repair, and maintenance; oversees welding and fabrication work; makes routine inspections of
equipment; operates various motor vehicles to run diagnostics and test after repairs have been
completed; schedules and coordinates vehicle cleaning
20% +/- 10%
Oversees operations of the public works facility; conducts inventory of parts and equipment;
determines needs, obtains bids, and orders equipment and supplies; analyzes and monitors data
from underground storage tanks; makes repairs as needed; supports and assists with county fuel
card purchase program; monitors County GPS system and coordinates installations, removals, and
reporting.

Page 108 of 125

Effective Date: 07.10.2012
Last Modified: 07.10.2012

 Fleet Services Supervisor



20% +/- 10%
Performs related administrative responsibilities; prepares various reports, records, and other
documents; responds to emails and phone calls; attends various trainings and meetings; prepares
purchase orders; provides input in budget meetings; prepares budget requests; coordinates vehicle
auctions; schedules and approves vehicle loaner/rental requests.

Minimum Training and Experience Required to Perform Essential Job Functions


Associate degree in Automotive Technology and three (3) years of auto mechanics experience; or an
equivalent combination of education, training, and experience.



Automotive Service Excellence (ASE) Master Certification in Automotive and Medium/Heavy Duty
Truck; or equivalent technical training.



Valid driver’s license and proof of automobile insurance.

Additional Requirements


Must obtain and maintain a class “B” Underground Storage Tank Operator within six (6) months of
hire date.



Must obtain an EPA Section 609 MVAC Certification within six (6) months of hire date.

Minimum Physical and Mental Abilities Required to Perform Essential Job Functions
Physical Requirements
Ability to operate a variety of automated office machines including computer and copier.


Ability to operate various motor vehicles including automobiles, vans, and pick-up trucks.



Ability to utilize automobile diagnostic and maintenance equipment, tools, and supplies.



Ability to crawl, crouch, bend, twist, and lift, push, or pull up to 50lbs.

Supervisory Responsibilities


Ability to assign, review, plan, and coordinate the work of other employees and to maintain standards.



Ability to provide instruction and training to other employees.



Ability to solve and act on employee problems.



Ability to recommend the transfer, selection, evaluation, or promotion of employees



Ability to recommend the discipline or discharge of employees.

Mathematical Ability


Ability to add, subtract, multiply, divide, and calculate decimals and percentages.
Language Ability & Interpersonal Communication

Page 109 of 125

Effective Date: 07.10.2012
Last Modified: 07.10.2012

 Fleet Services Supervisor


Ability to perform mid-level data analysis including the ability to audit, deduce, assess, conclude and
appraise. Requires discretion in determining and referencing established criteria to define
consequences and develop alternatives.



Ability to comprehend a variety of informational documents including work orders, mileage reports,
estimates, garage reports, equipment reports, and other reports and records.



Ability to comprehend a variety of reference books and manuals including employee handbook, shop
manuals, fleet buyers guide, vehicle electronics manual, parts manuals, equipment manuals,
Electronic or Web Based Programs and Reference Materials, Ohio Administrative Code (AOC), Ohio
Revised Code (ORC), Federal Code for Regulations (CFR), and Department of Transportation (DOT)



Ability to prepare schedules, garage reports, work orders, estimates, Chargeback/Force accounts,
purchase orders, disciplinary reports, time and leave documents, and other job-related documents
using prescribed format and conforming to all rules of punctuation, grammar, diction, and style.



Ability to convince and influence others, to record and deliver information, to explain procedures, to
maintain confidentiality of restricted information, and to follow instructions.



Ability to use and interpret mechanical and electrical terminology and language.



Ability to communicate effectively with supervisor, department directors, drivers, security personnel,
auto body shop personnel, sales representatives, subordinates, and the general public.

Environmental Adaptability


Work is typically performed in a maintenance garage environment.



Work may involve exposure to strong odors, smoke, electrical currents, noise extremes, vibrations,
and machinery.

Cuyahoga County is an Equal Opportunity Employer. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the
County will provide reasonable accommodations to qualified individuals with disabilities and encourages both
prospective employees and incumbents to discuss potential accommodations with the employer.

Page 110 of 125

Effective Date: 07.10.2012
Last Modified: 07.10.2012

 CURRENT CLASSIFICATION
Class Number Classification Title
Supervisor, Trace Evidence
12274
Laboratory

Department
MEO

FLSA Status
Exempt

Pay Grade
17A

PROPOSED REVISED CLASSIFICATION
Class Number Classification Title
Supervisor, Trace Evidence
12274
Laboratory

Department
MEO

FLSA Status
Exempt

Pay Grade
17A

Requested By:

Personnel Review Commission

Rationale:

PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised in 2014. The essential job
functions, minimum requirements, language, and formatting sections were
updated. No change to pay grade or FLSA status.

No. of Employees
Affected:

One

Dept.(s) Affected:

Medical Examiner’s Office

Fiscal Impact:

None

Staffing
Implications:

None

PRC Contact(s):

Verona Blonde, Classification and Compensation Specialist
Albert Bouchahine, Manager of Classification and Compensation

Page 111 of 125

 Human Resources
and Management
Contact(s):
Dr. Harmeet Kaur,
Managing Lab
Director and QA
Manager
Dr. Thomas Gilson,
County MEO

Date of Contact:

Type of Contact:

Reason:

8/16/2019
9/10/2019

Email
Email

Review of Final Draft
Confirmation of Receipt
and Clarification

8/16/2019
9/10/2019

Email

Copied on
Communications

Hugh Shannon, MEO
Administrator

8/16/2019
9/10/2019

Email

Copied on
Communications

Jim Battigaglia –
Archer Consultant

9/10/2019

Email

Request for Pay Grade
Evaluation

Page 112 of 125

 CUYAHOGA COUNTY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION
Class Title:
FLSA:
Dept:

Supervisor, Trace Evidence Laboratory
Exempt
Medical Examiner’s Office

Class Number:
Pay Grade:

12274
17A

Classification Function
The purpose of this classification is to supervise and participate in the recognition, collection, and
analysis of trace evidence collected in house, submitted by outside agencies, or collected from crime
scenes; to produce trace evidence reports for analyses performed, and to testify in courts of law as to
the results of trace evidence examinations.
Distinguishing Characteristics
This is a manager level classification. Incumbents in this classification work under general supervision
of the Managing Laboratory Director and Quality Assurance Manager. This position oversees and
promotes the efficiencies of the trace evidence lab unit, incorporates process improvements, and
ensures that work meets time and quality objectives. The employee is responsible for ensuring proper
preservation and documentation of evidence and adherence to applicable laws, protocols, and
regulations. This class supervises Forensic Scientists and other assigned staff.
Essential Job Functions
The following duties are normal for this classification. These are not to be construed as
exclusive or all-inclusive. Other duties may be required and assigned.




40% +/- 10%
Oversees and participates in the recognition, collection, and processing of evidence from vehicles,
victims of violent death, items collected at autopsy, and items submitted by outside law enforcement
agencies; prepares and analyzes trace evidence samples on scientific instrumentation; applies
instrumental, physical, and chemical techniques in the examination of trace evidence; documents
and records observations and results of trace evidence examinations; analyzes and compiles data;
compiles case files and generates trace evidence final reports; provides opinion and interpretation
of results; performs administrative and technical review of data, trace evidence case files, and
reports generated by other trace evidence staff; testifies in courts of law regarding trace evidence
examinations.
20% +/- 10%
Supervises and directs the work of Forensic Scientists and other assigned staff; directs staff to ensure
work completion and maintenance of standards; plans, assigns, and reviews work; provides training
and instruction; evaluates employee performance; assists staff with complex or problem situations;
responds to employee questions, concerns, and problems; coordinates on-call and work rotation
schedules; approves employee timesheets and leave requests; prepares and reviews documents
related to timesheets, requests for leave, and overtime; develops and monitors unit work plans and
work performance standards; monitors and provides for training needs; meets with employees
individually and as a unit; recommends personnel actions including selection, promotion, transfer,
discipline, or discharge.

Page 113 of 125

Effective Date: 07.28.2014
Last Modified: 07.28.2014

 Supervisor, Trace Evidence Lab








15% +/- 5%
Ensures that trace evidence laboratory activities are completed on-time and accurately; reviews
required reports; analyzes, interprets, and reports on assigned case work; ensures trace evidence
unit maintains compliance with applicable accreditation requirements; investigates technical errors
and provides recommendations on appropriate corrective and preventative measures; provides
troubleshooting services to resolve equipment, instrumentation, or analytical method issues;
manages case statistics; implements and enforces quality assurance procedures; ensures that
safety procedures are followed.
10% +/- 5%
Communicates with a variety of individuals and groups; oversees lectures, internships, department
tours, and detective requests; presents lectures to students, lawyers, and law enforcement
personnel.
10% +/- 5%
Oversees regular maintenance of Trace Evidence laboratory spaces and equipment; ensures that
supplies and equipment are available so that productivity is not interrupted; reviews purchase
orders for technical accuracy; ensures that supplies and reagents are ordered in a timely fashion;
ensures performance of equipment after repairs, maintenance, or malfunction.
5% +/- 2%
Performs related administrative responsibilities; prepares various reports, records, and other
documents; responds to emails and phone calls; attends and participates in professional group
meetings, conferences, seminars, and trainings; keeps current on new trends and information in the
field; researches, validates, and implements new procedures.

Minimum Training and Experience Required to Perform Essential Job Functions


Bachelor’s degree in a chemical, physical, biological, or forensic science with six (6) years of
experience performing forensic trace evidence analysis; or an equivalent combination of education,
training, and experience.

Additional Requirements


Completion of FEMA ICS 100, 200, and 700 courses is required within probationary period (180
days).

Minimum Physical and Mental Abilities Required to Perform Essential Job Functions
Physical Requirements


Ability to operate a variety of automated office machines including computers and peripheral
equipment.



Ability to use a variety of laboratory tools and equipment, including a scanning electron microscope,
energy dispersive x-ray detector, infrared spectrometer; digital camera, and optical microscope

Supervisory Responsibilities
•

Ability to assign, review, plan and coordinate the work of other employees, and to maintain
standards.

•

Ability to provide instruction and training to other employees.

Page 114 of 125

Effective Date: 07.28.2014
Last Modified: 07.28.2014

 Supervisor, Trace Evidence Lab
•

Ability to solve and act on employee problems.

•

Ability to recommend the transfer, selection, evaluation, or promotion of employees.

•

Ability to recommend and act on the discipline or discharge of employees.

Mathematical Ability


Ability to add, subtract, multiply, divide and calculate decimals and percentages, routine statistics,
and understand college level algebra, geometry, and trigonometry.

Language Ability & Interpersonal Communication


Requires the ability to perform mid to high level data analysis requiring managing of data and
people deciding the time, sequence of operations or events within the context of a process, system
or organization. Involves determining the necessity for revising goals, objectives, policies,
procedures or functions based on the analysis of data/information and includes performance
reviews pertinent to objectives, functions, and requirements.



Ability to comprehend a variety of informational documents including qualitative data, spectra,
statistical reports, chain of custody record, case history forms, trace evidence reports, autopsy
reports, police reports and photos, requests for information release, subpoenas, record of evidence
submissions, record of evidence releases, case final reports, and supply order requests.



Ability to comprehend a variety of reference books and manuals including Employee Handbook,
standard operating procedures, forensic science books and journals, quality assurance manual,
safety manual, training manual, instrument manuals, hazardous material records, and code of
ethics.



Ability to prepare training set records, competency test records, forms, and charts, statistical
reports, chain of custody, instrument performance check records, trace evidence case files, trace
evidence laboratory examination reports, trace evidence unit manual updates, trace evidence
procedures, quality assurance documents, instrument maintenance logs, supply order requests,
correspondence, and other job related documents using prescribed format and conforming to all
rules of punctuation, grammar, diction, and style.



Ability to supervise and counsel employees, convince and influence others, to record and deliver
information, to explain procedures, and to follow instructions.



Ability to use and interpret medical, scientific, and legal terminology and language.



Ability to communicate and to develop and maintain effective working relationships with staff, other
departmental employees/managers, supervisor, attorneys, law enforcement personnel, and
students.

Environmental Adaptability


Work is typically performed in an office/laboratory environment



Work may involve exposure to strong odors, toxic agents, disease, bodily fluids, electrical currents,
and laboratory equipment/machinery.

Page 115 of 125

Effective Date: 07.28.2014
Last Modified: 07.28.2014

 Supervisor, Trace Evidence Lab
Cuyahoga County is an Equal Opportunity Employer. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the
County will provide reasonable accommodations to qualified individuals with disabilities and encourages both
prospective employees and incumbents to discuss potential accommodations with the employer.

Page 116 of 125

Effective Date: 07.28.2014
Last Modified: 07.28.2014

 Job Title

Classification
Number

REVISED
Communications Specialist

10151

Construction Technician

18011

Forensic Photographer

12211

Laboratory Technician –
Toxicology

12191

Manager, Fleet Services

15073

Medical Records Technician
Residential/Agricultural
Appraisal Coordinator
Senior Printing Coordinator
(Manager,
Print Production)

17021

Senior Supervisor, Nursing

17032

Supervisor, Drug Chemistry
Laboratory

12264

Supervisor, Fleet Services
Supervisor, Trace Evidence
Laboratory

20011
15162

15072
12274

Current
Pay
Grade & FLSA

RECOMMENDED
PAY GRADE
& FLSA

11A/Exempt

11A/Exempt
(No Change)
4A/Non-Exempt
(No Change)

Communications

6A/Non-Exempt
(No Change)
5A/Non-Exempt
(No Change)

Medical Examiner

4A/Non-Exempt
6A/Non-Exempt
5A/Non-Exempt
13A/Exempt

13A/Exempt
(No Change)

6A/Non-Exempt

6A/Non-Exempt
(No Change)
13A/Exempt
(No Change)
11A/Exempt
(No Change)

13A/Exempt
11A/Exempt
12A/Exempt
17A/Exempt
11A/Exempt
17A/Exempt

12A/Exempt
(No Change)
17A/Exempt
(No Change)
11A/Exempt
(No Change)
17A/Exempt
(No Change)

Department

Public Works

Medical Examiner
Public Works
Health and Human
services
Fiscal Office
Public Works
Human Services
Medical Examiner
Public Works
Medical Examiner

Rationale

PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised in 2012. The essential job functions, language,
formatting, and minimum qualifications were updated. No change to pay grade or FLSA status.
PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised in 2012. The essential job functions, minimum
qualifications, language, and formatting were updated. No change to pay grade or FLSA status.
PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised in 2014. The essential job functions, language,
formatting, and minimum qualifications were updated. No change to pay grade or FLSA status.
PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised in 2014. The essential job functions, language,
formatting, minimum qualifications, physical requirements and environmental adaptability were updated.
No change to pay grade or FLSA status.
PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised on 2/13/2019. The essential job functions, minimum
qualifications, language, and formatting were updated to be consistent with the lower level position.
No change to pay grade or FLSA status.
PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised in 2019. The education and experience requirements
were updated. No change to pay grade or FLSA status
PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised in 2012. The language, and formatting were updated.
No change to pay grade or FLSA status.
PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised in 2016. The title, essential job functions, minimum
qualifications, language, and formatting were updated. No change to pay grade or FLSA status.
PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised in 2015. The essential job functions, language, and
formatting were updated. No change to pay grade or FLSA status.
PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised in 2014. The essential job functions, minimum
requirements, language, formatting, physical requirements, and environmental adaptability sections were
updated. No change to pay grade or FLSA status.
PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised in 2012. The essential job functions, minimum
qualifications, language, and formatting were updated. No change to pay grade or FLSA status.
PRC routine maintenance. Classification last revised in 2014. The essential job functions, minimum
requirements, language, and formatting sections were updated. No change to pay grade or FLSA status.

Page 117 of 125

 County Council of Cuyahoga County, Ohio
Resolution No. R2019-0237
Sponsored by: County Executive
Budish

A Resolution confirming the County
Executive’s reappointment of various
individuals to serve on the Cuyahoga County
Archives Advisory Commission for the term
12/1/2019 - 11/30/2023, and declaring the
necessity that this Resolution become
immediately effective.

WHEREAS, the Cuyahoga County Charter Section 6.04, entitled Special Boards
and Commissions, states that “[w]hen general law or any agreement with another
public agency or court order provides for appointment of members of a special board
or commission or other agency by the board of county commissioners, such
appointment shall be made by the County Executive, subject to confirmation by the
Council,” and
WHEREAS, the Cuyahoga County Archives Advisory Commission is authorized
under Cuyahoga County Code Section 206.11; and
WHEREAS, Cuyahoga County Code Section 206.11 (E)(3) states that, “With
regard to the initial terms of appointed Commission members, three members shall be
appointed to full terms and two members shall be appointed to half terms.”
WHEREAS, the County Executive has nominated the following individuals for
reappointment to serve on the Cuyahoga County Archives Advisory Commission for
the term 12/1/2019 – 11/30/2023:
a. Deborah A. Abbott
b. Kieth A. Peppers
WHEREAS, this Council by a vote of at least eight (8) members determines that
it is necessary that this Resolution become immediately effective in order that Charter
requirements can be complied with and critical services provides by Cuyahoga
County can continue and to provide for the usual, daily operation of a County Board.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COUNTY COUNCIL OF
CUYAHOGA COUNTY, OHIO:
SECTION 1. That the Cuyahoga County Council hereby confirms the County
Executive’s reappointment of the following individuals to serve on the Cuyahoga
County Archives Advisory Commission for the term 12/1/2019 – 11/30/2023:

Page 118 of 125

1

 a. Deborah A. Abbott
b. Kieth A. Peppers
SECTION 2. It is necessary that this Resolution become immediately effective
for the usual daily operation of the County; the preservation of public peace, health,
or safety in the County; and any additional reasons set forth in the preamble.
Provided that this Resolution receives the affirmative vote of at least eight members
of Council, this Resolution shall become immediately effective.
SECTION 3. It is found and determined that all formal actions of this Council
concerning and relating to the adoption of this Resolution were adopted in an open
meeting of the Council, and that all deliberations of this Council and of any of its
committees that resulted in such formal action were in meetings open to the public, in
compliance with all legal requirements, including Section 121.22 of the Ohio Revised
Code.

On a motion by __________, seconded by _________, the foregoing Resolution was
duly adopted.
Yeas:
Nays:

_________________________
County Council President

__________
Date

_________________________
Clerk of Council

__________
Date

First Reading/Referred to Committee: October 22, 2019
Committee(s) Assigned: Human Resources, Appointments & Equity
Journal ______________
_______________, 20__

Page 119 of 125

2

 Cuyahoga County

 

Together We Th rive
we   -
Armond Budish

- Cuyahoga County Executive

October 11, 2019

Dan Brady, President

. Cuyahoga County Council
2079 E.'Ninth Street, 8th Floor
Cleveland, OH 44115

Re: - Cuyahoga CoungvArchivesAdvisozy Commission

Dear President Brady:

Pursuant to Cuyahoga County Ordinance No. 02 14-0028, Cuyahoga County has established
an Archives Advisory Commission. This nine member board promotesthe identification
and preservation of historical records and ensures access by Cuyahoga County and the - 
general public. I am pleased to nominate the following individuals for reappointment to
the Cuyahoga County Archives Advisory Commission:

o_ Deborah A. Abbott, 4-year term, 12/01/2019 11/30/2023
0 Kieth A. Peppers, 4-year term, 12/01/2019 11/30/2023

Attached you will find copies of the nominee?s bio /resume for your review. The members
of this board are not compensated and serve 4-year terms. 

There is other candidate on file for this position.
Thank you for your consideration of this appointment. ShoUld you or any of your

colleagues have any questions, please feel free to contact Michele Pomerantz in my office at
216-443-7125. - 

   
  
 

Sincerel

If


a 3 I 
A mo BtTd'fs '1 

Cuyahoga County Ex?c??tive

   

 

2079 East Ninth Street Cleveland, Ohio 44115 216-443-7178 .

Page 120 of 125

 

Biography

Deborah A. Abbott, 
Deborah A. Abbott, is a professional genealdgist, specializing in African American
research, manuscript collections and genealogy methodology. She serves as a Trustee on the
Board of the Ohio Genealogical Society a member of the Cuyahoga County Archives
Advisory Board in Cleveland; and a member of the Board of Directors for the Federation of
Genealogical Societies (FGS). She is an associate with the Kentucky?Tennessee Associates
based in Spring?eld, past president of the African American Genealogical Society,
Cleveland, and a retired professor of Counseling from Cuyahoga Community College in'

Cleveland. She holds both the BS and M. Ed. degrees from Tuskegee University in Alabama and
the degree from Kent State University 1n Ohio.

Dr. Abbott is an instructor as well as the Coordinator of the African American track at IGHR in
Athens, Georgia. She is an instructor at SLIG in Salt Lake City, Utah; and the African American
Genealogy Colloquium at Alabama State University in Montgomery, Alabama. She presents
lectures and workshops at a variety of national, state, and local genealogy conferences across the
country, as well as colleges, businesses libraries. She has had articles published in the Ohio
Genealogy News and Family Tree Magazines. Dr. Abbott can also be seen teaChing African 
American research entitled ?Needles Threads? on Ancestry Academy, an educational website
video course for Ancestry. corn. .

Dr. Abbott IS a member of National Genealogical Society (N GS) the Association of Professional
Genealogist (APG), the Genealogical Speakers Guild (GSG), and a life member of the Fred Hart
Williams Genealogical Society, Detroit, MI, as well as other state and local genealogical
societies. She teaches classes entitled Usmg Ancestry com in Genealogy Research i? at
the Lakewood (Ohio) Public Library and coordinates the ?Genealogy and Family History Clinic?
for the Cleveland Public Library.

A Cleveland native, she is a life member of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc, the Tuskegee
University National Alumni Association, and Antioch Baptist Church in Cleveland.

Page 121 of 125

 

 

 

CAREER DEVELOPMENT. 

 

 

 

Cleveland State University

Master of Art in History, sp?cializing :11 Museum Studies, August 2010.

Bachelo: of Art' 111 History, Summa Cum Laude, May 2009.

 

Baldrvin Wallace University, Berea, Ohio 08/2014? Present

Archivist, Historian, and Professor 

Pursue Posterity, Cleveland, Ohio 10/2011- Present

CEO and Resident Historian

Public Library, Wadsworth, Ohio 03/2013 - 08/2014

Reference/Teen Associate and Historian . 

Ideastream 5, Cleveland, Ohio 08/2011 - 01/2012
Assistant Project Manager (Gran t?Funded)

Cleveland State Special Collections, Cleveland Ohio . 12/2?000 09/2010

Library Assistant 

Cuyahoga County Archives, Cleveland, Ohio . 08/2008 - 12/2008
- Historical Intern -

 

Introduction to Public History: This course introduces public history, an area of
history that applies history to our surroundings and brings the past to the people.

Introduction to Archives and Museums (PBH 200K) The course is designed to
familiarize students with common terminology, best practices, and current events
in the archival and museum field.

Research in Community History (PBH 300) This course introduces students to
local history, a genre of history that emphasizes the commuruty and its
contributions to our understanding of the bigger picture.

Oral History Practicum (PBH 350) This course introduces students to the
importance, theory, literature, and practice of oral history.

Public History Practicum (PBH 47070 The internship requires students to work for
a museum, historical society, library, archive, or other public history orgardzation.

 

 

Society of Ohio Archivists (May 2017)

?Discover .. Explore -- Connect: Teaching with Primary Sources in the Sciences?

Ohio Private Academic'Libraries Annual Conference (August 2017)
?Collabmative Connections: Selection Funding Implementation?

Ohio Private Academic Libraries Annual Conference (August 2017)
?Using Your Resources to Spur Collaboration?

 

Publications

 

T/zree Communities, One Heritage (Gray 0: Co. Publishing, 2017)
The Maple City Rubber Company.- 100 Years and Growing (Commoner (20., 2015)

?Intentional Excellence in the Baldwin Wallace University Neuroscience
Program" (Journal of Undergraduate Neuroscience Education, June 7, 2015)

Page 24' of 53

Page 122 of 125

 

 

 



Three Communities, One Heritage Bicentennial Project:

(2015-2017) A multifaceted project covering two-hundred years of history for
'I?Winsburg, Twinsburg Township, and Reminderville. The project necessitated
research, the recording of fifty oral histories, photography, and on~site visitation,
culminating in a Website and the publication of a book.

Cleveland Museum Of Natural History Collaborative Project:

(2016-2017) Participation in two backnt'o-back collabOIatiVe projects, involving the
oversight of students engaged in the process of digitizing and curating original,
primary resources housed at the CMNH on their behalf. Students were shown
proper handling, digitization, and metadata creation protocol, resulting in the
digitized aesets becOming accessible via -

Timeline of Cincinnati's Jewish History for the Jewish Federation of Cincinnati:
(2014) An interactive timeline, displaying both major and minor events in Jewish
history throughout Cincirmati's past.

The ASM International Centennial Web Exhibit:

(2013) A comprehensiVe timeline and web exhibit discussing events, people, and
movements within 100 years Accessible via 

Digitizing the City Club of Cleveland Forums:
(2013) A grantuvfunded project, working in tandem with Cleveland State University

. to gather the highest quality recordings of each presentation conducted at the City

Club 'oi Cleveland, preparing the collection for digitization.

Consultation for The Temple Museum of Jewish Art, Religion, and Culture:
(20124-2016) A relocation of The Temple Museum from its prior location within
University Circle to its new location within the Temple Tifereth-Israel Beechwood
necessitating the establishment of a totally new repository requiring a complete
reorganization and a comprehensive examination of all records and assets.

Collaborative ideastream Partnership.

(2012-2015) The oversight of staff, procedure, and timely completion of a grant-n
funded project which required the cataloging of nearly 38,000 audio, video, and
digital assets along with the creation of accompanying metadata.

 

Cleveland Archival Roundtable Ohio Museums Association
National Council on Public American Alliance of Museums

History Society of Ohio Archivists Society of American Archivists

 



Google Docs 

Adobe Photoshop 0 
Adobe Illustrator Omeka

Audacity Microsoft Of?ce Suite

 

 

 

John DiGennaro: Library Director, Baldwin Wallace University
Indira Gesink: Professor and Dept. Chair, Baldwin Wallace University
Bycko: Special Collections Manager, Cleveland State University
Judy Cetina: County Archivist, Cuyahoga County Archives

Sue Temple Museum Director, Temple-T?ereth Israel

 

Page 25 of 53

Page 123 of 125

 

County Council of Cuyahoga County, Ohio
Resolution No. R2019-0243
Sponsored by: County Executive
Budish/Department of Human
Resources

A Resolution making an award on
RQ45502 to The James B. Oswald
Company in the amount not-to-exceed
$834,650.00 for professional employee
benefits consultant services for the period
10/15/2019 - 4/15/2023; authorizing the
County Executive to execute the contract
and all other documents consistent with said
award and this Resolution; and declaring the
necessity that this Resolution become
immediately effective.

WHEREAS, the County Executive/Department of Human Resources has
recommended an award on RQ45502 to The James B. Oswald Company in the
amount not-to-exceed $834,650.00 for professional employee benefits consultant
services for the period 10/15/2019 - 4/15/2023; and
WHEREAS, the primary goal of this project is to advise the County on creating
the most beneficial and cost-effective program designs through the consultants’
knowledge of this dynamic industry; and
WHEREAS, the project is funded 100% by HR Benefits Administration Funds;
and
WHEREAS, it is necessary that this Resolution become immediately effective in
order that critical services provided by Cuyahoga County can continue and to provide
for the usual, daily operation of a County entity.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COUNTY COUNCIL OF
CUYAHOGA COUNTY, OHIO:
SECTION 1. That the Cuyahoga County Council hereby authorizes an award on
RQ45502 to The James B. Oswald Company in the amount not-to-exceed
$834,650.00 for professional employee benefits consultant services for the period
10/15/2019 - 4/15/2023.
SECTION 2. That the County Executive is authorized to execute the contract
and all other documents consistent with this Resolution.

Page 124 of 125

1

 SECTION 3. It is necessary that this Resolution become immediately effective
for the usual daily operation of the County; the preservation of public peace, health or
safety in the County; and any additional reasons set forth in the preamble. Provided
that this Resolution receives the affirmative vote of at least eight members of Council,
it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon the earliest occurrence of any of
the following: (1) its approval by the County Executive through signature, (2) the
expiration of the time during which it may be disapproved by the County Executive
under Section 3.10(6) of the Cuyahoga County Charter, or (3) its passage by at least
eight members of Council after disapproval pursuant to Section 3.10(7) of the
Cuyahoga County Charter. Otherwise, it shall take effect and be in force from and
after the earliest period allowed by law.
SECTION 4. It is found and determined that all formal actions of this Council
relating to the adoption of this Resolution were adopted in an open meeting of the
Council, and that all deliberations of this Council and of any of its committees that
resulted in such formal action were in meetings open to the public, in compliance
with all legal requirements, including Section 121.22 of the Ohio Revised Code.

On a motion by __________, seconded by _________, the foregoing Resolution was
duly adopted.
Yeas:
Nays:

_________________________
County Council President

__________
Date

_________________________
County Executive

__________
Date

_________________________
Clerk of Council

__________
Date

First Reading/Referred to Committee: October 22, 2019
Committee(s) Assigned: Human Resources, Appointments & Equity
Journal ______________
_______________, 20__

Page 125 of 125

2

 