MINUTES
NORTHEAST OHIO REGIONAL SEWER DISTRICT
BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING
August I, 2019

A Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District was
called to order at pm. by Darnell Brown.

I. Roll Call

PRESENT: D. Brown
R. Sulik
R. Stefanik
T. DeGeeter
.I. Bacci

ABSENT: Ciaccia
S. Dumas

The Secretary informed the President that a quorum was in attendance.
ll. Approval of Minutes

MOTION - Mayor Bacci moved and Mr. Sulik seconded to approve the Minutes ofthe July 18.
2019, Board Meeting. Without objection, the motion carried unanimously.

Ill. Public Session
There were no items.
IV. Chief Executive Officer's Report

CEO Kyle Dreyfuss-Wells began with an update on lrishtown Bend. The District's Westerly Low
Level Interceptor (WLLI) sewer runs through this area ofslope instability in the City ofClechand,
along the Cuyahoga River. The District has been working with the Port Authority. the City.
NOACA, ODOT and others to ?gure out a solution and funding source for this issue ofinstability
which is again causing structural problems for the sewer.

Ms. Dreyl?uss-Wells noted two big developments from the last couple of weeks: (I) the Port
Authority has entered into a contract with Osborne Engineering to design the stabilization and
bulk-heading ?x and the District, through Doug Lopata. Program Manager for the Engineering
and Construction Department is part ofthat team: and (2) NOACA was awarded $9 million
last week from the US. Department ofTransportation as part of an Infrastructure for Rebuilding
American grant. The grant is focused on rebuilding the bulkheads and stabilizing the
hillside at lrishtown Bend. The grant will help toward the funding for this fix. In September, a

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

August 1,2019

Page 2 of 13

resolution will be presented for Board consideration requesting approval to participate ?nancially
in this to the extent that it protects the District?s sewer.

Next, Ms. Dreyfuss-Wells noted that last week the State passed its biennial operating budget in
the amount of $69.8 billion. The ll20hio Fund is now in effect. This includes Funding for
wetlands, best management practices for farmers and some additional planning and research work
with a total ofabout $90 million for this fiscal year 2020. The second year is also funded with less
specificity about the funding and the District will continue to work with the Ohio Lake Erie
Commission to make the pitch for local infrastructure issues as part ofthat funding solution. The
budget bill also included some amendments to Ohio Revised Code Chapter 6119 that the District
has been working on with the good work of the Legal Department and the help of our state
advocates. with support from Senator Dolan. These amendments give 6119 districts greater
?nancial and contracting ?exibility to work with non-governmental entities as well as others on
water resource projects. For the District, in particular, it gives clarity to the green infrastructure
grants, our affordability programs and partner projects.

During the months of May, June and July, the District received a series of awards including on
May 23?1 Crestani, Enterprise Biosolids and Residuals Superintendent, received the 2019
Merrill L. Riehl Award which recognizes an individual dedicated to education and professional
advancement of wastewater treatment plant operators. Also, at the Ohio Water Environment
Association?s (OWEA) Annual Conference SSMO received the Collection System of the Year
Safety Award and Southerly, Easterly and SSMO were recognized with safety certificates. Kristen
Greenwood, a supervising biologist, received the Crucible Award which honors
individuals working to promote increased professionalism in the wastewater laboratory field. At
National Association of Clean Water Agencies (NACWA) summer conference the District
received the 2019 Clean Water Advocate Award for work on the 50?11 anniversary and NACWA
highlighted that the District exhibited proactive and multi-tiered approach to advocacy related to
that work.

V. Action Items
Authorization to Advertise

Resolution No. 191-19 Authorization to publish notice calling for
bids, in accordance with Ohio Revised Code
Chapter 6119, for snow plowing services at
District facilities with an anticipated
expenditure of $75,000.00.

Resolution No. 192-19 Authorization to publish notice calling for
bids, in accordance with Ohio Revised Code
Chapter 61 19, for up to 2,220,000 dry pounds
of Ferric Chloride Solution at all Wastewater
Treatment Plants as a twelve-month

BOA RD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

August 1,2019

Page 3 of 13

requirement contract and an anticipated
expenditure 

MOTION Mayor Stefanik moved and Mayor Bacci seconded to adopt Resolution Nos. 191-19
and 192-19. Without objection, the motion carried unanimously.

Authorization to Issue Reguest For Proposals 

Resolution No. 193-19 Authorization to issue an RFP, in accordance
with Ohio Revised Code Chapter 61 19, For the
Avaya Phone System Upgrade project.

MOTION Mr. Sulik moved and Mayor Stefanik seconded to adopt Resolution No. 193-19.
Without objection, the motion carried unanimously.

Resolution No. 194-19 Authorization to issue an RFP. in accordance
with Ohio Revised Code Chapter 153, for the
Easterly-?Westerly Electrical Service
Improvements project.

MOTION Mr. Sulik moved and Mayor Bacci seconded to adopt Resolution No. 194-19. Without
objection, by roll call vote, the motion carried with all present members voting yes and recusal
from discussion and voting abstention by Mr. Brown.

Authorization to Purchase

Resolution No. 195-19 Authorization to purchase replacement parts. as-
needed, for replacement ofmetallic sludge collector
parts for the primary settling tanks at the Easterly
and Southerly Wastewater Treatment Plants from
sole source vendor Polychem Systems in a total
amount not-to-exceed $200,000.00.

MOTION Mayor Stefanik moved and Mr. Sulik seconded to adopt Resolution No. 195-19.
Without objection, the motion carried unanimously.
Authorization to Enter into Agreement

Resolution No. 196-19 Authorization to enter into a loan agreement

with the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency and the Ohio Water Development

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

August 1,2019

Page 4 of 13

Authority to accept Funding for design
and construction costs related to the Barberton
Creek/Dille Pump Station Upgrades project for
a total amount up to $2,177,198.00.

Resolution No. 197-19 Authorization to enter into a loan agreement
with the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency and the Ohio Water Development
Authority to accept PCLF funding for design
and construction costs related to the Easterly
and Westerly Low Voltage Equipment
Replacement project for a total amount up to
$11,094,242.12.

Resolution No. 198-19 Authorization to enter into a loan agreement
with the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency and the Ohio Water Development
Authority to accept funding for design
costs related to the District-Wide Solids
Handling Improvements Study For a total
amount up to $582,540.00.

Resolution No. 199-19 Authorization to enter into a two-year
agreement with RoviSys For assistance with
workload and professional staff augmentation
for the Process Control and Automation
Department under the Support Services for
Controls project in an amount not-to-exceed
$1,000,000.00.

Resolution No. 200-19 Authorization to enter into a one-year
agreement with Paladin Protective Systems.
Inc. for upgrade of video surveillance security
systems and related maintenance and support
under the Southerly Security Systems Upgrade
project in an amount not-to-exceed
$426,340.20.

MOTION Mayor Stefanik moved and Mr. Sulik seconded to adopt Resolution Nos. 196-19
through 200-19. After the following discussion, without objection, the motion carried
unanimously.

Mr. Brown requested further explanation on the work to be accomplished in reference to
Resolution No. 198?19. Devona Marshall, Director of Engineering and Construction stated that
under this project, which the Board approved at the last meeting by authorizing the District to enter

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

August 1,2019

Page 5 of 13

into a contract with Black Veatch, the District will perform a study of issues identi?ed at
Southerly relating to the solids handling system. These problems were identified during the annual
capital planning process. Under this project, the issues will be evaluated and recommendations
will be made related to capital improvement projects and, potentially, operation and maintenance
projects. In addition, the District has a task in this project to look at Westerly sludge, including the
potential of bringing the sludge to Southerly for treatment in the REF facility. As part ofthat, the
District will also evaluate a related opportunity to have a potential merchant facility that would
allow the District to take sludge or other materials from outside vendors.

Next, Mr. Brown requested an explanation on Resolution 200-19. Mohan Kurup, Director of
Information Technology, stated that this resolution deals primarily with the cameras at Southerly.
Southerly has the largest number of cameras and was the location that was implemented ?rst for
video surveillance. The useful life of the cameras is approximately five (5) years. Easterly and
Westerly cameras are expected to need replacement in 2022.

Mr. Brown asked ifthis is for cameras at door entrances. Mr. Kurup agreed that this is primarily
cameras used by both Security and Operations. Also, things like door swipes and electronic key
card access are handled by Security through which does analysis of security needs and
participates with IT for security system and business network requirements for new buildings or
facility updates that may affect these systems.

Authorization to Amend Agreement

Resolution No. 201-19 Authorization to Amend Agreement No.
18003974 with GPD Group for the West Creek
Bank Stabilization in Brooklyn Heights project
to increase the agreement amount by
$681,062.38, thereby bringing the revised total
agreement amount to $2,222,092.38.

Resolution No.202-19 Authorization to Amend Agreement No.
13000804 with Brown Caldwell for the
CEIIRT Preliminary Design Development
project to increase the total agreement amount
by $200,000.00, thereby bringing the revised
total agreement amount to $4,447.980.00.

Resolution No.203-19 Authorization to Amend Agreement No.
19000231 with Kokosing Industrial, Inc. for
the Easterly Bar Screen Conveyor Belt
Rehabilitation project to incorporate a
Guaranteed Maximum Price of $3.109,974.00.
thereby bringing the revised total agreement
amount to $3,306,974.00.

BOA RD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

August 1,2019

Page 6 of l3

MOTION Mr. Sulik moved and Mayor Bacci seconded to adopt Resolution Nos. 20 1 9 through
203-19. After the following discussion, without objection, the motion carried unanimously.

Mr. Brown requested further explanation on Resolution No. 202-19. Frank Greenland. Director
of Watershed Programs, stated that there is some history at the West Creek site. There are
significant erosion issues that are threatening multiple structures and there are also structures in
place in the stream that provide water quality impediments. He said that funding was requested for
the project about 15 years ago to address these issues and the hold-up was with ODOT
not being comfortable with certain project elements that would remove a flume under 1-480. Now
the situation has worsened. Mr. Greenland then introduced Kim Colich, Stormwater Design
Manager, to discuss this project.

Ms. Colich displayed a slide showing a map of West Creek and the areas that were targeted for
repair under the original agreement with GPD. During the pre?design phase of that project, data
was collected, evaluated, surveyed, and modeling and geotech was performed. A lot ofinspection
was done and a recommendation was made to do a more wholistic ?x to stabilize this stretch of
West Creek which is approximately 6,000 feet long. The original contract amount wasjust over
$1.5 million. This contract amendment is for an additional $680,000. The amendment would
change the BOP commitment of the project to 19.6 and 7.6 8813. The original overall
contract BOP goals are still being exceeded in this contract amendment. Through the pre-design,
the District noticed that the preferred alternative would be to a more wholistic approach or a raised
grade approach.

Next, Ms. Colich provided slides showing the infrastructure that is being threatened by the erosion,
speci?cally Lancaster Road Bridge as well as the concrete channel along 1-480. A raised grade
approach would raise up the invert of the stream anywhere between 2 and 8 feet, which will be
determined during design phase. This will elevate the stream channel closer to pro-development
conditions. The channel has been incised and degraded through time because ofthe stream energy,
due to the increased imperviousness upstream from development. The design would lower the
stream gradient so energies would be reduced by reducing the slope ofthe creek. Raising the grade
would also create a larger cross-sectional area to allow access to some of the floodplain which
would reduce the velocities and energies. It would also remove all fish passage barriers. An
additional bene?t would be possible elimination ofthe need for any structural walls at the ODOT
channel. Ms. Colich stated that there have been projects in the past that have not gone so well in
this particular stretch of West Creek, so this approach would set the project up for future success.
The original construction estimate wasjust over $7 million and the revised construction estimate
is just over $18 million. For design and construction there will be about a six-month delay.
Construction duration will be a little bit longer because ofthe increase in the work.

Mr. Brown stated that he thought the increase in engineering costs was signi?cant but the District
is tripling what the construction costs will be based on what is expected to be discovered and what
has to occur not only for remediation but also for the fish passage and everything else associated

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

August 1,2019

Page 7 of 13

with this project. He is concerned with what happens in the aftermath. He has seen the effects of
what happens when water gets behind walls, etc.

Mr. Greenland stated that the trick is to keep the rocks in place. This area looks a lot like Big
Creek along [-71 and there was a similar approach there. Erosion in these areas is significant and
it is getting worse daily. He said the regional stormwater management program (RSMP) will move
into larger projects to tackle erosion issues and-"or flooding and these will all be consistent with
master plan ?ndings.

Ms. Dreyfuss-Wells added that it is important to pick up on one point that Ms. Colich raised which
is the restoration of floodplain function that is non?existent here. The idea of raising up the stream
to meet its floodplain is a good in terms of limiting the need for maintenance and the need for these
walls.

Mr. Greenland stated that the discussions with ODOT have been favorable. This project is one of
ten on a list for the Cuyahoga River Area of Concern 

Authorization of Contract Modi?cation

Resolution No. 204-19 Authorizing final adjusting change order for
Contract No. 1800269] with ABC Piping Co.
for the Easterly Grease Handling
Improvements project by decreasing the
contract amount by $137.142.98, thereby
bringing the total contract amount to
$1,832,357.02.

MOTION Mayor Stefanik moved and Mr. Sulik seconded to adopt Resolution No. 204?19.
Without objection, the motion carried unanimously.

Sewer Use Code Matters

Resolution No. 205-19 Adopting the findings of the llearing Officer
with regard to the sewer charges on the account
ol'Ms. Valerie Burkes, Sewer District Hearing
No. 19-019, that the customer?s request be
denied.

MOTION Mr. Sulik moved and Mayor Bacci seconded to adopt Resolution No. 205-19. Without
objection, the motion carried unanimously.

Authorization to Reiect and Re-Bid

Resolution No.206?l9 Authorization to reject bids and rc-bid the
Jennings and Old Denison Combined Sewer

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

August 1,20l9

Page 8 of 13

Cleaning 2019 project, with an anticipated
expenditure 

MOTION Mayor Bacci moved and Mr. Sulik seconded to adopt Resolution No. 206-19. Without

objection, the motion carried unanimously.

Authorization to Enter into Memorandum of Understanding

Resolution No. 207-19

Authorization to enter into a Memorandum of
Understanding with the Ohio Patrolman?s
Benevolent Association (OPBA) to Amend
Appendix A of the OPBA Collective
Bargaining Agreement by increasing the
standard hourly rate for Security Of?cers by
higher in 2018, $0.02 higher in 2019,
and $0.04 higher in 2020.

MOTION Mayor Stefanik moved and Mayor Bacci seconded to adopt Resolution No. 207-19.
A?er the following discussion, without objection, the motion carried unanimously.

Mr. Brown requested a brief discussion on Resolution 207-19.

Angie Smith. Director of Human Resources, responded that the District is correcting a mistake in
the way rates were calculated which was different than past practice. The rates included the shift
premium in a place where it should not have been included which made the rates higher for certain
classi?cations. Instead of lowering those classi?cation rates, the District wants to increase the

standard hourly rate.
Property Related Transaction

Resolution No. 208-19

Resolution No. 209-19

Authorizing the District to acquire one
permanent stormwater easement on a portion
583-25-002, located on Harris Road in
the City of Broadview Heights, owned by the
Board 01' Education of the Brecksville School
District, necessary for the construction and
maintenance of the Chippewa Creek at llarris
Road, Broadview Heights project with total
consideration of$1.00.

Authorization to acquire one parcel in fee
simple, located at 9186 North Bedford Road in
the City of Macedonia, and known as Summit
County PPN 33-02530, owned by Thomas and

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

August 1, 2019

Page 9 of 13

Catherine Loya, necessary for the construction
and maintenance of the Indian Creek SWMP
Project Area 2-Bedford/Ledge Flooding
project and to enter into a lease agreement with
the Loyas with total consideration of
$168,000.00 plus closing costs.

Resolution No. 210-19 Authorizing the District to acquire one
permanent easement and four temporary
easements on a portion of PPN 008-29-004,
located on West 11th Street in the City of
Cleveland, owned by the City of Cleveland,
necessary for the construction of the W. 3rd
Quigley-"Westerly Miscellaneous CSO Control
project with total consideration 

MOTION Mr. Sulik moved and Mayor Bacci seconded to adopt Resolution Nos. 208-19 and
209-19. After the following discussion, without objection, the motion carried unanimously.

MOTION Mr. Sulik moved and Mayor Stefanik seconded to adopt Resolution No. 210-19.
Without objection, by roll call vote, the motion carried with all present members voting yes and
recusal from discussion and voting abstention by Mr. Brown.

V1. lnfonnation Items
1. Financial Investment Advisor Performance Reports for the 2"d Quarter 2019.

Ken Duplay, Chief Financial Of?cer, stated that the District is tracking well against the budget
revenue and expenses, meeting all ?nancial metrics and the requirements ofthe investment policy.

2. Operations and Maintenance Quarterly Board Update

Frank Foley, Director of Operation and Maintenance began his update on safety by
presenting a chart to the Board with the total lost workdays and the total restricted workdays for
the years 2016 through 2019. The number of lost and restricted workdays for 2019 has been driven
primarily by the number of accidents that occurred in the first quarter. There were seven lost-time
accidents during the first quarter and another three during the second quarter. Approximately three-
quarters ofthe lost work days shown in the chart, were driven by those accidents that occurred in
the ?rst quarter and approximately two-thirds of the restricted work days were driven by accidents
that occurred in the ?rst quarter. Mr. Foley stated that the District is doing better but not where he
would like to be.

Next, Mr. Foley showed a chart with a breakdown of the types of safety events that have occurred,
including one caught-between, four slips, trips and falls, three strains or sprains, one struck by and
one motor vehicle accident that resulted in lost or restricted time. He showed a slide on the days

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

August 1,2019

Page 10 of 13

away restricted or transferred rate, which is the number of incidents per 100 full-time
employees that result in lost or restricted workdays the District?s target being a DART rate of
2.0. He said the District is currently over the target for both District-wide and mostly
because of events of the ?rst quarter. For the second quarter, the DART rate for the District is
about 1.0 and the DART rate for is right around the goal of 2.0.

Mr. Foley said there are a number of risk reductions that the Health and Safety group is taking on
this year including developing a training reference guide for supervisors and managers, providing
new manager and supervisor hazard awareness and responsibility training, developing Safety 101
and 102 courses for new hires, publishing a calendar of regularly-scheduled safety classes.
improving training methodologies and also revising health and safety policies as needed.

Next, Mr. Foley discussed effluent quality related to total suspended solids at each of the plants.
A chart was presented to the Board demonstrating that for the second quarter, the District was
below the limits at all 3 plants. Mr. Foley pointed out that Westerly, during the month of
.lune. showed 15 for the month which is approaching the 20 milligram per liter and NPDES permit
limitation. He noted that in the third week of June at Westerly, the plant exceeded the weekly
limitations for suspended solids due to a buildup of solids in the plant and a number of wet weather
events.

Similar charts for carbonaceous biochemical oxygen demand (CBOD), phosphorus. and E. coh'
also show the District was below the allowable limits for the second quarter at all 3 plants. Mr.
Foley stated that this year the District is utilizing a more stringent, sensitive method to detect E.
can densities in the plants so there were some challenges early on, but he is proud of thejob done
by plant staff. He also noted that because of the more sensitive method that is using, the
District is using more sodium hypochlorite and more sodium bisulftte to disinfect and then
dechlorinate the ef?uents.

Mr. Foley stated that in .lune, at the Easterly plant. a notice of violation was received from the
Cleveland Division of Air Quality for a flag retirement ceremony that actually happened in .lune
of 2018. Plant staff filled out the paperwork for the permit and received clearance from the
Cleveland Fire Prevention Bureau, created a purchase requisition and went through the District?s
process. The Division ofAir Quality needed a hard copy check so, despite the fact that our process
is electronic, a manual step was required for the cheek and the application to be sent. This step did
not occur. During a review of outstanding purchase orders, it was discovered that the District owed
the Division ofAir Quality $50.00. The District issued the cheek and sent it to the Division ofAir
Quality and they, in turn, issued the notice ofviolation.

Moving on to maintenance and dry weather overflow minimization, the District has four dry
weather over?ows within the collection system for the year so far compared to 1 1 for last year. A
slide was presented that showed the automated equipment wet weather performance at almost 100
percent, with only a couple of minor issues in June.

Mr. Brown noted that a comparison of precipitation would also be interesting. Mr. Foley said he
did not have that infomtation, but he can look into it.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

August 1.2019

Page 11 of13

Mr. Greenland added that this is dry weather over?ows. The signi?cance here is that many years
ago the numbers were not in single digits, they were much higher. Systematic investments that
the District made to raise weirs and replace weirs and do the things to dramatically reduce this
total is a tribute to the SSMO staff. They are cleaning out the regulators that are most prone to
blockage so this number is well below what it used to be.

Mr. Brown said context is always what he is looking for and Mr. Foley said he will try to provide
historical context going forward.

Mr. Foley next provided a slide regarding planned maintenance by facility that shows
improvement at Southerly and Easterly compared to last year at this time but about the same at
Westerly in the collection system.

Next, a slide was presented showing the budget performance for 2019 within The slide
shows the 2019 budget at $69.4 million, the actual spending for 2019 at $29,792,000.00 and 2018
actual at $62.9 million. The chart shows that the District is almost dead-on with spending through
the second quarter of 2019 with what was spent for the same time period in 2018.

Mr. Foley moved to issues that could be potentially impacting morale within is
going through a lot ofchange right now with Operational Readiness Implementation. This is about
changing the way facilities are operated. It is also about looking at process components and making
decisions as they come to the end oftheir useful life as to whether they need to be replaced or if
the District can save capital by not replacing. This is a big change for people that are not used to
change. Also within the last couple ofyears there has been a lot of turnover in staffin terms
of staff retiring and some being promoted. Some view this as a good thing for morale and some
see it as a negative thing.

Mr. Foley recapped some of the recent events, including the 50?11 anniversary of the Cuyahoga
River fire event on June 22"" at Settler?s Landing. There was an event on June 30'? at Westerly
which was a Cleveland Foundation Common Ground discussion. On this date, the plant was open
to the public for tours. Just about every manager and members of the union staff were there.
District employees sat with the public and had discussions about the environment. Mr. Foley said
his point in bringing these events up in terms of morale discussion is that all of the events go to
the pride that a lot of District employees have in the work they do and to be able to bring people
into the facilities and show them the good work that is done is a source of pride for many
employees.

Next, Mr. Foley introduced Doug Reichlin. Deputy Chief Operating Officer, to speak about
Operational Readiness Implementation (0R1). Mr. Reichlin provided an update on the activities
ofthe ORI project. The three components ofthe project being people, process and perfonnance
working towards continuous improvement and sustainability of that culture. There are about 86
tasks now and 32 ofthose have been completed for a total savings of about $4 million per year on
an ongoing basis. One ofthe projects is a follow up on something that was talked about last year

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

August 1,2019

Page 12 of 13

called the Prius mode for the incinerators and the second is potable water savings identi?ed and
implemented at Southerly.

The Prius Mode Savings is where the District runs one incinerator initially and then ?lls up storage
because one incinerator is not adequate to take the full capacity of the sludge production. When
storage is full, the second incinerator is turned on. the storage is backed down and the cycle repeats
with the idea that there is some energy savings potential in that process. Mr. Reichlin showed a
slide showing the cost areas of savings in natural gas, electricity and maintenance. So far, there
have been 3 successful cycles this year and the savings gleaned out of that is summarized on the
slide. Because the District is constantly loading each incinerator at a higher level, there is a higher
level of autogeny which means they burn on their own without the addition 01" natural gas. The
sludge itself has enough energy to sustain the burning. The net savings is about $175,000.00 per
yean

Mr. Reichlin moved to ?uid bed incinerator electricity and indicated that each incinerator train
consumes about 800 kilowatts of electrical draw when operating. If the District is running 2
incinerators at 60% versus 1 at 100% and then 2, there is downtime where the savings is 800
kilowatts or $100,000.00 to $200,000.00 savings. Because the District is running the rotating
equipment, incinerators and boilers. etc. with less run time hours in a year, the District expects to
see long term savings in the maintenance projected at about $125,000.00 per year. The total
savings that is expected from this project is about per year.

Moving on to the Southerly Seal Water System Savings Performance project, Mr. Reichlin said
that this is actually a facility that was installed several years ago and for a variety of reasons was
not in service. Since then, a team has been working on this and the bugs have been worked out.
Leaks were fixed and modifications were made. The system is up and running and supplied by
non-potable water that comes from effluent which is free. The District is recycling water
internally and saving about $200,000.00 a year in city water consumption prices. He said the
District is also looking to extend the system to some remaining areas of the plant and increase
those savings by another $50,000.00 per year.

Vll. Open Session
There were no items.
Public Session (any subject matter)
There were no items.
1X. Executive Session
MOTION Mayor Bacci moved pursuant to Ohio Revised Code to enter into

Executive Session to consider the compensation ofpublic employees. Roll call vote: all yes, enter
into executive session at 1:27 p.m.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

August 1, 2019

Page 13 of 13

X. Approval ofltems from Executive Session (ifnecessary)
There were no items.

XI. Adjournment

MOTION - Mr. Brown stated business having been concluded, he would entertain a motion to
adjourn. Mayor Bacci moved and Mr. Sulik seconded the motion to adjourn at 2:08 pm. Without

objection, the motion carried unanimously.

Timothy J. Dew Secretary

Board 01' Trustees
Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District

\?usgw,

Darnell Brown, Pgsident
Board of Trustees
Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District

