Regional Enterprise Data Sharing System (REDSS) Advisory Board
Prosecutor Michael C. O’Malley, Chair
Chief Tim Malley, Vice-Chair
February 22, 2019 Organizational Meeting Minutes
VOTING MEMBERS

ASSOCIATION

Michael C. O’Malley

Cuyahoga County Prosecutor

✓

Chief Timothy Malley

Cuyahoga County Police Chiefs Assoc.

✓

Chief Joe Bobak

Cuyahoga County Police Chiefs Assoc.

✓

Brandy Carney

Cuyahoga County Executive Rep.

Capt. Rich Peters

Cuyahoga County Sheriff’s Office-Alternate

Chief Calvin Williams

City of Cleveland, Chief of Police

Absent

Dr. Thomas Gilson

Cuyahoga County Medical Examiner

Absent

Absent
✓

ATTENDING
Dep. Chief Harold Pretel

City of Cleveland

Michael Herb

Cuyahoga County, CJIS

I.

Call to Order / Roll Call
Chairman O’Malley Malley called the meeting of Feb. 22, 2019 to order. Roll was called, and a
quorum was in attendance.

II.

Nomination/Election – Vice Chair
Noted Chief Foster has retired and is replaced by City of Parma Police Chief Joe Bobak as
CCPCA representative. Nominations called for Vice Chair: Chief Bobak nominated Chief
Malley; seconded by Prosecutor O’Malley; all in favor; none opposed, no abstentions. Chief
Tim Malley named Vice-Chair.

III.

Approval of Minutes
Motion to approve the meeting minutes of Sept. 14, 2018; made by Chief Malley; seconded by
Chairman O’Malley; all in favor; one abstention.

IV.

Public Comment
None.

Page 1 of 2

 V.

Old Business
Mike Herb gave an update on the Automated License Plate Readers (ALPRs). Discussion
ensued with questions, comments on the contract with Chagrin Valley Dispatch, and designated
county employees for monitoring cameras. Concerns were raised about daily monitoring and
reports if the system is down, as well as notifying the vendor. Prosecutor O’Malley requested a
report on camera operations and a contract review by the Prosecutor’s Office Civil Division for
accountability. Mike Herb to send documents and prepare report for next meeting.
Update given on mobile camera trailers and proposal for additional purchase with reallocated
UASI grant funding. Also discussed was the UASI grant that was awarded for additional fixed
LPR locations. Review of pending applications, noting the scoring criteria for the proposed
sites. Map and list of current locations and number of cameras was presented. Chair and ViceChair stressed importance of Law Enforcement partners involvement in decision making
process for new locations. Deputy Chief Harold Pretel noted LE sub-committee inclusion
during first round of camera purchase.
Data Warehouse: Memorandums of Understanding have been sent to municipalities for legal
review and signatures. Tentative date to go live is April 1st. Updates given on interfacing with
TAC and Sundance, user completion and testing. Questions on progress, user capability and
access levels were answered. Captain Peters commented on capabilities, training and noted the
system is user friendly and accessible.

VI.

New Business
Mike Herb reported the Protection Order Registry is under contract, meetings are being held
and questions have been posed to another vendor (NORIS) regarding legal issues.
REDSS Revenue and Expenditure was presented. Request for detailed breakdown of contracts
and professional services.

VII.

Announcements/Other Business
Discussion on sustainability of the Data Warehouse after build-out and interfacing is completed.
Questions regarding invoices from CVDC and line items being charged/paid.
Request for mobile camera utilization reports.
Prosecutor O’Malley reiterated staff from Chagrin Valley should attend meetings moving
forward.

VIII.

Adjournment
With no further business the meeting was adjourned.

*Next meeting: April 5, 2019

Page 2 of 2

 