Board Meeting
7-15-2019
Attending:
Jeff Hastings, Chairman
Inajo Davis Chappell, Member
Robert S. Frost, Member
David J. Wondolowski, Member
Anthony W. Perlatti, Director
Shantiel Soeder, Deputy Director
Kelli Perk, Assistant Prosecutor, Cuyahoga County
Anthony Alto, Clerk to the Board
Linda Walker, Clerk to the Board
The Board Meeting began at 9:32 am.
Chairman Hastings noted that all board members were present.
Agenda Item 1: Approval of minutes from the June 24, 2019 board meeting
The Board voted unanimously to approve the minutes from the June 24, 2019 board meeting.
Agenda Item 2: Acknowledgement of Secretary of State Directive 2019-09: Last Chance
Mailing
The Board voted unanimously to acknowledge Secretary of State Directive 2019-09.
Director Tony Perlatti stated that staff is complying with the directive, and will provide the
Board with a summary at the next board meeting.
Agenda Item 3: Supplemental certification of candidates to the November 5, 2019 General
Election in lieu of the September 10, 2019 Primary Election
The Board voted unanimously to certify the supplemental candidates listed in the meeting
materials to the November 5, 2019 General Election in lieu of the September 10, 2019 Primary
Election.
Agenda Item 4: Acknowledgement of candidate withdrawals

1

 The Board voted unanimously to acknowledge the withdrawal of candidates listed in the meeting
materials.
Agenda Item 5: Acknowledgement of resignations from and appointments to elected office
The Board voted unanimously to acknowledge the resignations from and appointments to elected
office as provided in the meeting materials.
Agenda Item 7: Approval of vouchers
Chairman Hastings abstained from voting on voucher item number seven (7), his own
reimbursement.
Fiscal Services Manager Kendra Zusy stated that renewing the contract with ES&S will be tied
to its consumer price index.
Board Members Chappell, Frost, and Wondolowski voted to approve voucher number seven (7),
Chairman Hastings’ reimbursement.
The Board voted unanimously to approve the remaining vouchers provided in the meeting
materials.
Agenda Item 8: Approval to send the voter information guide for the September 10, 2019
Primary/Special Election
The Board voted unanimously to approve sending the voter information guide for the September
10, 2019 Primary/Special Election.
Agenda Item 9: Approval for Contract Renewal Agreement for Software License of a
Remote Absentee Ballot and Marking System – Democracy Live, Inc.
Board Member Chappell asked why there is no limit on the amount of on-site service days for
the fixed amount.
Director Perlatti stated that this contract was created pursuant to a Secretary of State Directive.
He anticipates 0-1 on-site service day usage.
The Board voted unanimously to approve the contract renewal agreement for software license of
a Remote Absentee Ballot and Marketing System – Democracy Live, Inc.
Public Comment
Rev. Pamela M. Pinkney Butts
Rev. Pinkney Butts spoke about the League of Women Voters.

2

 New Business:
Director Perlatti stated that everything is on schedule for the September Election. Registration
closes on August 12th. Absentee ballot opening will begin on August 13th. Staff is waiting to hear
back from the Secretary of State on hours for Labor Day voting. The Board is in compliance with
the first deadline in Directive 2019-08. Some documents concerning the Directive are exempt
from public records requests. Staff is working on the biannual budget.
Deputy Director Soeder stated that the Board of Elections will host a group of students from the
Look Up Summer program on July 17th.
Board Member Frost stated the Ohio Association of Election Officials held a planning retreat
where they discussed a statewide Board of Elections Open House.
The Board voted unanimously to enter executive session at 10:03 am.
The Board voted unanimously to enter public session at 10:22 am.
Agenda Item 6: Approval of personnel agenda
The Board voted unanimously to approve the personnel agenda as provided in the meeting
materials.
The Board voted unanimously to adjourn at 10:23 am.

3

 Certification: I have reviewed the above minutes and certify that they are an accurate summary of the
actions taken by the Cuyahoga County Board of Elections at its meeting held on July 15, 2019.

Jeff Hastings, Chairman

lnajo Davis Chappell, Member

 

Robert S. Frost, Member

 

David J. Wondolowski, Member

 

 

 

Anthony Perlatti, Director

