6-5

NOAOA PROJECT MAINTENANCE
MONITORING PROGRAM

Transportation Subcommittee
September 20, 2019

   

 








 
 

 

 

 

ACTION REQUESTED
No action is being requested. This item is being presented
for information and discussion.

PREVIOUS ACTION

Staff proposed the creation of a project maintenance
monitoring program to the Policy Committee at its July 2018
meeting.
6-5

 BACKGROUND

NOACA plans for and administers Federal
transportation funding through the:

• Surface Transportation Block Grant (STBG) program;
• Transportation Alternatives (TAP) program; and
• Congestion Mitigation Air Quality (CMAQ) program

6-5

 BACKGROUND

• In accordance with federal and state provisions (notably Title
23 United States Code, Section 116), once a project is
completed, the sponsoring agency is required to adequately
maintain the project to an acceptable standard.
• Provision incorporated into ODOT federal project agreements.

6-5

 BACKGROUND
• As program manager of STBG, TAP and CMAQ funds, the
NOACA Board of Directors has expressed concerns regarding
maintenance of the projects to which it has committed funds.
• The Board wants to ensure that the approved project’s
intended public benefit is received and being maintained for
the duration of the project’s determined useful life.
• As such, the Policy Committee adopted this item as a 2020
focus area for development to strengthen the Board’s
directive.
6-5

 BACKGROUND
•

As defined by federal requirements:
•
•

6-5

The term “maintenance” means the preservation of the entire
facility within the original termini and scope of the project.
The term “adequate maintenance” means maintenance
necessary for the safe and efficient utilization of the
completed project as designed.

 BACKGROUND
At the July 2018 Policy Committee meeting, staff
proposed the creation of a Project Maintenance
Monitoring Program to demonstrate:
• Public benefit is received for determined
useful life;
• Consistent with Board of Directors
approved scope and intent;
• Adequate maintenance is being performed;
and
• Issues, as a result of non-maintenance, are
properly addressed
6-5

 BACKGROUND
To guide and advance implementation of the program,
specific policies will need to be adopted by the agency.
• The policy would address components of the proposed
program including:
• Monitoring method and frequency;
• Scope of maintenance performance reviews;
• Recommendations and measures to address and correct
identified deficiencies; and
• Assurance for compliance
• Non-compliance

6-5

 POTENTIAL POLICY ELEMENT

Monitoring Method and Frequency
• NOACA will annually identify projects from an appropriate priority list
for inspection.
• NOACA will select projects which are three to five years post
completion for maintenance inspection.

• Follow-up reviews can occur at pre-determined intervals during the
useful life of the project

6-5

 POTENTIAL POLICY ELEMENT
Scope of Maintenance Performance Reviews
• Field visits will be conducted on selected projects.
• NOACA will partner with the sponsor in performance
of the review.
• Provide a summary of findings and recommendations to
the sponsor for formal review and response.

6-5

 POTENTIAL POLICY ELEMENT

Recommendations and Measures to
Address and Correct Identified
Deficiencies

• Establish:
• appropriate measures to address and
correct the identified deficiencies; and
• acceptable timeframe by which the
project sponsor will perform them
• After an agreed upon deadline NOACA will
verify that the deficiencies have been
satisfactorily addressed within the agreed to
timeframe.
6-5

 POTENTIAL POLICY ELEMENT
Assurance for Compliance
• If deficiencies are addressed, NOACA will notify the project
sponsor of acceptance.
• NOACA will document sponsor’s best practices and
methods to inform its processes and improve its
practices.

6-5

 POTENTIAL POLICY ELEMENT
Non-Compliance
• If deficiencies are not satisfactorily addressed within the agreed to
timeframe NOACA, in accordance with federal requirements, may:
•
•

6-5

Recommend the NOACA Board to withhold approval of future NOACA
funding to the sponsor until the deficiency is satisfactorily addressed.
Refer non-compliance matter to ODOT, as the primary oversight
agency, which may result in withholding approval of projects of all types
until ‘such project shall have been put in proper condition of
maintenance.’

 NEXT STEPS
Staff will use the input received from the Subcommittee
to develop a draft policy document that will be brought
at a future meeting for continued input.

6-5

 NOACA will STRENGTHEN regional
cohesion, PRESERVE existing
infrastructure, and BUILD a
sustainable multimodal transportation
system to SUPPORT economic
development and ENHANCE quality
of life in Northeast Ohio.

 