MINUTES
NORTHEAST OHIO REGIONAL SEWER DISTRICT
BOARD OF TRUSTEES MEETING
August 15, 2019

A Regular Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District was
called to order at 12:33 pm. by Darnell Brown.

I. Roll Call

PRESENT: D. Brown
R. Stefanik
T. DeGeeter
J. Ciaccia
J. Bacci
S. Dumas
ABSENT: R. Sulik

The Secretary informed the President that a quorum was in attendance.
11. Approval ofMinutes

MOTION Mayor Bacci moved and Mr. Ciaccia seconded to approve the Minutes ofthe August
1, 2019, Board Meeting. Without objection, the motion carried unanimously.

111. Public Session
There were no items.
IV. Chief Executive Officer?s Report

CEO Dreyfuss-Wells began her report by advising that the District held Quarterly Employee
Recognition Awards last week. She presented a slide with all the names of District employees that
were recognized for work in helping customers, helping one another, saving the District money
and solving problems proactively. There were several teams recognized this quarter, including the
group that assisted the City of Dayton in recovery after the tornado as well as those employees
involved in the District press event and weekend activities surrounding the 50lh anniversary of the
last Cuyahoga River ?re.

The graduates of the 5m cohort of the Good Neighbor Ambassadors were also recognized.
Ms. Dreyfuss-Wells displayed a photograph of the graduates with the Honorable Michael J. Ryan
who is a Juvenile Court Judge and the District?s keynote speaker at the graduation event. Judge
Ryan previously spoke to the Good Neighbor Ambassadors about his story and he came back to
share that with District employees and with the families of the ambassadors who attended the
event. In addition, some of the graduates completed the National Green Infrastructure Certification
program with training from District Watershed Programs staff.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

August 15, 2019

Page 2 of 13

Concluding the report, Ms. Dreyfuss?Wells stated the District continues to meet with member
communities as a general check-in. Ms. Dreyfuss-Wells, Frank Greenland, Director of Watershed
Programs, and the Watershed Team Leaders recently met with the communities of Brook Park,
Columbia Township, Olmsted Falls and Glenwillow to discuss the District?s Regional Stormwater
Management Program, Community Cost-Share Program, local sewer system evaluation studies,
stormwater fees, sanitary fees and any concerns by the mayors or trustees.

V. Action Items
Authorization to Advertise

Resolution No. 2] 1-19 Authorization to publish notice calling for bids, in accordance
with Ohio Revised Code Chapter 6] 19, for a two-year
requirement contract for up to 18,100,000 wet pounds of liquid
sodium hypochlorite solution at all Wastewater Treatment
Plants with an anticipated expenditure of 1 ,200,000.00.

Resolution No. 212-19 Authorization to publish notice calling for bids, in accordance
with Ohio Revised Code Chapter 6119, for a three?year
requirement contract to supply industrial gases for use at all
District facilities with an anticipated expenditure of
$170,000.00.

MOTION Mr. Ciaccia moved and Mayor Bacci seconded to adopt Resolution Nos. 21 1-19 and
212-19. After the following discussion, without objection, the motion carried unanimously.

Mr. Brown asked for explanation on Resolution 21 1-19. Frank Foley, Director of Operation and
Maintenance, stated that the chemical contemplated is used for disinfecting ef?uents from May
through October each year with a small amount used for disinfecting non-potable water within the
plant during the remaining months. This year, for the ?rst three (3) months of the recreation season,
from May through July, the amount of this chemical was increased by 32 percent over what was
used in the previous year. This increase can be attributed to a more accurate and more sensitive
analytical method being used when testing for bacteria during wet weather so more chemical is
being used to disinfect ef?uents; and the District is capturing more ?ow as a result ofthe CSO
improvements. In addition, there is always a potential for additional wet weather. Since this is a
requirement contract, only the amount needed will be purchased.

Authorization to Issue Request For Proposals (RFP)

Resolution Authorization to issue an RFP, in accordance with Ohio
Revised Code Chapter 6119, for Overhead Crane Operator,
Mobile Crane Operator and Safety
Training for District employees.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting
August 15,2019

Page 3 of 13
Resolution No.2l4-19 Authorization to issue an RFP, in accordance with Ohio
Revised Code Chapter 6119, for hardware, software and
professional services for wireless temperature monitoring at the
District?s Analytical Services laboratory, under the Analytical
Services Wireless Temperature Monitoring project.
Resolution No.215-19 Authorization to issue an RFP, in accordance with Ohio

Revised Code Chapter 6119, for software and professional
services under the Customer Relationship Manager (CRM)
Implementation project.

MOTION Mayor Stefanik moved and Mr. Ciaccia seconded to adopt Resolution Nos. 213-19
through 215-19. After the following discussion, without objection, the motion carried
unanimously.

Mr. Ciaccia asked for more information regarding Resolution No. 214-19. He asked to what extent
the District analyzes up front solutions it is considering or, is it left up to the consultant to provide
the District with that information. Mohan Kurup, Director of Information Technology, stated that
the Analytical Services laboratory at EMSC has approximately 60 measurement locations
including ovens and incubators, and these must be measured at least twice per day and that is being
done manually. Solutions for monitoring automatically through a wireless temperature monitor
and a back-end server are turn-key. The device will talk to the server, log it and allow the District
to have more accurate measurements and no missed measurements. It will also allow for the
District to react quickly if something is out of spec. The RFP does not specify a solution; there are

many solutions that are built just for this application, but a recommendation will come from the
RFP.

Mr. Ciaccia asked if the RF will be awarded to a consulting firm who would then select solutions
for the District?s approval and then that would be incorporated into the contract.

Mr. Kurup responded that the nature ofthe RFP is that companies that implement these kinds of
solutions would be proposing on implementing that solution.

CEO Dreyfuss-Wells added that there is not a lot of discretion in the type of work which is
measuring temperatures on the devices in the lab. This work does not require design or planning,
like the APM for example, which has a lot of question marks.

Mr. Kurup agreed and stated that it does not need to be customized.

Ms. Dreyfuss-Wells asked Scott Broski, Superintendent of Environmental Services, if he had
anything to add to the response to the question.

Mr. Broski stated that two (2) vendors have been identified specific to this type of system and the
RFP will be sent to them directly. He also said that Contract Compliance was consulted to make
sure all potential vendors were notified and they also identi?ed some consulting ?rms that may

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

August 20l9

Page 4 of l3

want to take on a project like this so the RFP will be sent to those vendors and posted through the
normal purchasing procedures. Mr. Broski said he is aware how much a system like this would
cost and what the hardware and software looks like so based on homework done up to this point,
he has a pretty good idea of who will come in on something like this but there are other options
and that is why it is going through the RFP process.

Mr. Ciaccia asked if the two solutions looked at are well-established solutions as opposed to any
innovative ones that might be out there.

Mr. Broski responded that they are well-established and focus on pharmaceutical-type applications
where temperature sensitivity is important but under the National Environmental Laboratory
Accreditation Counsel (NELAC) accreditation, the District is required to maintain temperature on
over 60 different devices. Also, calibrated thermometers must be read manually 2 times per day.
He said that if temperatures are off on the walk-in coolers that hold the samples on a Saturday or
Sunday, when no one is in the lab, the entire inventory of samples could be lost. This project will
allow alarms and a better chance to respond to something that may be deviating from a temperature
requirement.

Mr. Ciaccia said he has the same question on Resolution No. 215-19. Mr. Kurup responded that
this RFP is more wide open because the Inquiry Tracking Log (ITL) was an in-house written app
in 2009 initially meant to be a temporary solution. The responsibilities became more widespread
and it had to interact with more systems. Currently. a CMMS replacement is being considered and
the replacement for this system will have to interact with that as well as the GIS and a number of
other tools, so it has lived its useful life and it is time to look at replacements.

Mr. Ciaccia stated that he has just become aware of how many solutions are out there on the
different technologies being considered and he wants to understand the District?s practice in
narrowing down the ?eld before sending out for an RF P.

Mr. Kurup said the way it is narrowed down is to be speci?c in the requirements in the RF and
that helps narrow the field.

Authorization to Enter into Agreement

Resolution No. 216-19 Authorization to enter into a loan agreement with the Ohio EPA
and the Ohio Water Development Authority to accept 
funding for construction costs related to the Easterly Bar Screen
Conveyor Belt Rehabilitation project for a total amount up to
$3,306,974.00.

Resolution No. 217-19 Authorization to enter into a three-year agreement with ESRJ,
Inc. for the renewal of software licensing and support for 018
Application Software in an amount not-to-exceed $720,000.00.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

August 15, 2019

Page 5 of 13

Resolution No. 218-19

Authorization to enter into a professional services agreement with
Cambridge Computer Services, Inc. for storage area network
(SAN) upgrades and to purchase SAN hardware and services
under the State of Ohio Cooperative Purchasing Program, in a
total amount not-to-exceed $90,333.79.

MOTION Ms. Dumas moved and Mayor Stefanik seconded to adopt Resolution Nos. 216-19
through 218-19. Without objection, the motion carried unanimously.

Authorization to Enter into Contract

Resolution No. 219-19

Authorization to enter into a two-year contract with The AJ.
Gates Company for lift equipment preventative maintenance
and repairs at all District facilities in an amount not?to?exceed
$73,372.60.

MOTION Mayor Stefanik moved and Ms. Dumas seconded to adopt Resolution No. 219-19.
Without objection, the motion carried unanimously.

Authorization of Contract Modi?cation

Resolution No. 220-19

Authorization to modify the existing 24-month contract with
Zinkan Enterprises, Inc. for Boiler Feedwater Treatment and
Cooling Tower Services to extend the contract through
September 30, 2020 with no change in the contract amount.

MOTION Mr. Ciaccia moved and Mayor Bacci seconded to adopt Resolution No. 220-19.
Without objection, the motion carried unanimously.

Sewer Use Code Matters

Resolution No. 221-19

Resolution No. 222-19

WITHDRAWN

Adopting the ?ndings of the Hearing Of?cer with regard to
sewer charges on the account of Chandler Park, Sewer District
Hearing No. 19-018, that the customer?s request be denied.

MOTION Mayor Stefanik moved and Ms. Dumas seconded to adopt Resolution No. 222-19.
Without objection, the motion carried unanimously.

Authorization to Reiect Bids

Resolution No. 223-19

Authorization to reject all bids received for the West 3rd
QuigleyIWesterly Miscellaneous CSO Control project.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

August 15, 2019

Page 6 of 13

MOTION Mayor Stefanik moved and Mr. Ciaccia seconded to adopt Resolution No. 223-19.
After the following discussion, without objection, the motion carried unanimously.

Mr. Ciaccia requested more information on Resolution No. 223-19 since this is the second time
bids were rejected. The ?rst time the low bidder was $12.3 million and now the low bidder is $12.9
million, but that bidder did not bid on everything. Mr. Ciaccia said there was a discrepancy on the
prior resolution request that he did not catch the last time. He said the rejection of the bid last time
was based on the bid being more than 10 percent over the engineer's estimate.

Devona Marshall, Director of Engineering and Construction, stated that the bid was rejected the
?rst time because the one bid received was not within 10 percent ofthe engineer?s estimate so by
Ohio law the District was not allowed to award.

Mr. Ciaccia stated that his recollection of the resolution request was the engineer?s estimate was
$10 million but at the top of the page it had a different ?gure so there is a discrepancy there.

Ms. Marshall said that the prior document may be wrong. The ?rst time the District did receive a
bid, it was not awardable. Feedback was provided by the contractors that they perceive there to be
a lot ofrisk in thejob, so they were a little bit scared to bid on thejob. Plus, a lot ofthe contractors
are busy during this time of the year. Additional feedback was received from contractors this time
around that said if it was January, they may bid the job, but right now is not good for contractors
due to the amount of work they already have. This time, the low bidder was actually an awardable
bid. The problem is that although the bidder did bid on all aspects ofthe job, the bidder submitted
an incomplete bid package as it relates to qualifications; therefore, even though the contractor met
requirements of Ohio law, due to the incomplete bid package, the District determined not to award.
The other two bidders were above the 10 percent estimate. Furthermore, because there has not
been a good bid on the job besides the one, the District has to do its due diligence, relook at the
risks on this job and maybe even come up with a better solution so more competitive bids are
received.

Property Related Transaction

Resolution No.224-19 Authorizing the District to deposit additional monies in the
amount of $176,800.00 with the Cuyahoga County Probate Court
for a total settlement amount of $220,000.00 to settle the
District?s appropriation action and acquire one permanent
subterranean easement on a portion of PPNS 120-30?116 and
120-31-003, located at 11730 Euclid Avenue in the City of
Cleveland, owned by Joseph Londrico, et al., necessary for the
construction and maintenance of the Doan Valley Tunnel.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

August 15, 2019

Page 7 of 13

Resolution No.225-19 Authorizing the District to acquire one parcel in fee simple
known as Summit County PPN 33-0121 1, located at 9176 North
Bedford Road in the City of Macedonia, owned by Nancy A.
Klatt, necessary for the construction and maintenance of the
Indian Creek SWMP Project Area 2 Bedford Ledge Flooding
project, and to enter into a lease agreement with Ms. Klatt, with
total consideration of $160,000.00 plus closing costs.

Resolution No. 226-19 Authorizing the District to acquire one parcel in fee simple
known as PPN 871-32-032, located at 2852 Lander Road in the
City of Pepper Pike, owned by Laura Piper Taylor, Trustee of
the Laura Piper Trust dated January 31, 2017, necessary for the
construction and maintenance of the Pepper Luce Creek
Stabilization Near Lander Road project, to enter into a lease
agreement with Ms. Taylor, and to allow for the entirety of the
payment to be disbursed to Title Services with total
consideration plus closing costs.

Resolution No. 227-19 Authorizing the District to enter into an environmental covenant
with the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency over multiple
District-owned parcels, located south of Beaver Avenue and east
of Kinsman Road in the City of Cleveland, necessary for the
District?s Woodland Central Green Infrastructure project.

Resolution No. 228-19 Authorizing the District to acquire one parcel in Fee simple
known as PPN 761-16-081, located at 19912 Longbrook Road in
the City of Warrensville Heights, owned by the Cuyahoga
County Land Reutilization Corp, necessary for the construction
and maintenance of the Mill Creek Bank Stabilization Project
with total consideration of $1.00.

MOTION Mayor Stefanik moved and Mr. Ciaccia seconded to adopt Resolution Nos. 224-19
through 228-19. After the following discussion, without objection, the motion carried
unanimously.

Referencing Resolution No. 226-19, Mr. Brown asked for a briefexplanation, due to the signi?cant
price and the fact that it requests approval to enter into a lease and to allow the lessees time to
relocate.

Frank Greenland, Director of Watershed Programs, stated that all of these are stormwater related
property acquisitions necessary for design and construction projects. These acquisitions follow a

fair market value process with appraisals.

Mr. Greenland asked Matt Scharver, Deputy Director of Watershed Programs, to provide further

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

August 15, 20l9

Page 8 of 13

details. Mr. Scharver discussed the Pepper Luce stabilization project. He displayed a slide showing
failing gabions. By acquiring this parcel, the District can provide a more holistic approach to the
stream restoration and capture needed ?oodplain on the Pepper Luce system, as opposed to doing
armoring on multiple parcels. From a cost-bene?t analysis of implementation of the program, this
extends the District?s ability to provide better services.

Mr. Brown asked if in addition to the gabions needing repair is there also going to be some
spreading out ofthe ?oodplain area so that it collects or captures more ?ow. Mr. Scharver said the
District will be able to capture additional floodplain, reduce risk oferosion and stabilize the banks,
and remove the house so that the channel can be realigned correctly.

Mr. Ciaccia asked how signi?cantly the economics of each solution are captured. Mr. Scharver
said there may be multiple solutions. Property acquisition becomes an option when the cost-
bene?t analysis is done of the stabilization, whether that be armoring or moving structures.
Mr. Ciaccia agreed that the acquisition is the right thing to do, but there should be documentation
ofthe economics of each solution and include life cycle costing because ifthe District is called to
question on one of these types of purchases which are appropriate and sound in terms of
engineering, there should be documentation ofthe economics to back up the solutions.

Mr. Greenland said economies are documented through alternatives and the bene?ts. Sometimes
a little more cost provides a lot more bene?t and that is how alternatives are weighed any time the
District gets into property or, for that matter, any alternative evaluation for a solution.

Ms. Dreyfuss-Wells added that Mr. Ciaccia raised a good point because these are permanent
solutions. The District will not have to go back and fix failing gabion baskets or have homeowners
that are ?ooded in the ?oodplain. These are permanent solutions that build resiliency back into
this system, which is a tributary to the Chagrin, which is a tributary to Lake Erie. This is
permanency as opposed to 20-year gabions that perpetuate problems across the region.

Mr. Ciaccia stated he agreed he just wants to make sure the District has the economics clearly
documented.

Mr. Brown added that the District is working with the state to ensure that the ?oodplain maps are
updated so that there is some responsibility for enforcement so that people are not building in the
floodplains in the future.

Mr. Greenland said during the master planning process, the District is evaluating alternatives trying
to obtain a 100-year level of protection. The District is not going to get there everywhere but is
documenting the solutions. He said more discussions are taking place internally and the District
will engage assistance externally for inundation mapping, the revised lOO-year ?oodplain maps.
This will be a big discussion with the local communities and their ?oodplain managers on the
revision ofthe old, outdated maps.

BOA RD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting
August 15, 2019

Page 9 of 13
VI. Information Items
1. Program Management Status Report and Update July 2019

Ms. Marshall provided an update on the Capital Improvement Program for 2019. She stated that
cash flow is steady at 85%. Actual dollars paid out was approximately $22 million and year-to-
date was at $1 15 million.

Moving to planning level key performance indicators (KPIs), in July staff delivered two ofthe six
consent decree reporting milestones. Construction was completed on the Union/Buckeye Green
Infrastructure project, meeting that milestone. Also, the semiannual report no. 15 was submitted
to the EPA, the and OAG giving them an update on work completed in the past six months
and work anticipated in the upcoming six months.

On construction level KPIs, construction was closed on the Southerly First Stage Aeration Tank
project which was a $13 million construction contract. The District closed that contract within 95
percent ofthe original contract amount, meeting the KPI, but fell short on Business Opportunity
Program (BOP) goals on this project. The goal was set at 12 percent. The projected
actual is at 13.46 percent so that portion of the goal was met but the SBE goal of 8 percent was not
met as the projected actual was .29 percent. Total work orders on this project came in at only .43
percent, for a total dollar amount of approximately $56,000.00. Most of the work orders were
owner requested changes.

Also, in the month of July, construction closed on the Superior Stones Canal CSO Improvements
project. This was a $17.5 million construction contract, but it was not closed within 95 percent of
the original contract amount so the KPI was not met. Howeverrelates to the
BOP goals. The overall goal was 18 percent and the actual was over 20 percent. Total work orders
came in at almost 8 percent, total dollar amount $1.4 million. Most of the work orders were owner
requested changes. Of note was a need for bypass pumping on the Superior Pump Station shortly
a?er construction started due to the pump station failing.

The highlighted project this month is the Woodland Central Green Infrastructure Project that is an
estimated $11.4 million construction project and one (1) of the nine (9) green infrastructure
projects being implemented as part of the CS0 long term control plan. The project includes two
(2) large GI basins for the purposes of stormwater management and ultimately CSO reduction and
it includes approximately 5,000 linear feet of new storm sewers through open cut construction.
The basins and storm sewer construction are completed and activation is anticipated for next week.
There is some remaining work to be done on the sites including seedings and plantings that will
take place in the fall. The walking trail and concrete entrance construction is in progress.
Substantial completion is scheduled for September of this year.

The environmental and community bene?ts associated with this project include, most importantly,
stormwater management for purposes of CSO reduction. In total, 30 million gallons of stortnwater
will be captured and treated, resulting in 4.2 million gallons of annual CSO reduction. The co-
bene?ts include environmental clean-up in the area of construction, and street restoration of the

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

August 15, 2019

Page 10 of 13

local streets and sidewalks in the area. In total, the clean-up includes about 4,000 linear feet of
street restoration and 3,000 feet of sidewalk. As with all the District?s green infrastructure projects,
there are park-like settings and amenities that come with the projects.

Next, Ms. Marshall shared some pre- and post-construction photographs of the site. She stated that
there were 2 main areas of construction on this project. The ?rst was the west basin, located along
Kinsman, just north of the railroad tracks, across the street from Green City Growers. The east
basin is located on East 75?" and Dell. There was signi?cant amount of waste both on the surface
as well as buried. During construction waste was found as far down as eight feet. A signi?cant
number of tires were removed from the site and biphenyl (PCB) contamination
was found both within the soil as well as in the standing water in the ravine. Over 10,000 cubic
yards of waste and over 6,000 tires were removed from the site. The contaminated soil was capped
in place. In addition, the contaminated water was removed and treated. Groundwater monitors
were installed that will allow the District to monitor to make sure that there is not leakage of the
PCBs into the groundwater. Also constructed in the ravine was an enhanced wetland. Overall the
site is 10 acres and the basin itself is about .9 acres so a lot of additional green space and some
walking trails at the site.

Next, Ms. Marshall provided photographs of the pre- and post-construction of the east basin
project. This basin is about .8 acres in size and the overall site is about 5 acres which encompasses
a lot of green space including walking trails.

Mr. Brown asked ifthis is detention as opposed to retention. Ms. Marshall said correct, the water
is of?oading from the combined system. Mr. Brown asked whether the water is standing
permanently. Ms. Marshall said it is only there during the rain event and then it will be emptied
out after the rain event.

Mr. Ciaccia said this is an unbelievable project that years ago was called the ?forgotten triangle?
that no one wanted to touch.

Next, Doug Lopata, Program Manager Engineering and Construction, provided an update on the
Lakeshore Boulevard/Euclid Creek Tunnel project. He stated the District is almost done with the
Control Measure 6 System. l-Ie displayed various slides showing an overview of the Euclid Creek
Tunnel (ECT). ECT 1 is the mining site where the machine was put in and also where the tunnel
dewatering pump station sits and eventually the future home of the Dugway Storage Tunnel. ECT
2 is another site right in front ofthe Easterly Treatment Plant. Next, ECT 3 is up by East 156'h
Street and ECT 4 is the Lakeshore Boulevard Relief Sewer. Finally, ECT 5, by St. Clair and
Nottingham, is where the machine was pulled out. The Lakeshore Boulevard area is very critical
from a residential neighborhood perspective. The District is trying to get the ?ow to the Euclid
Creek Tunnel. There is also the Euclid Creek Pump Station which is a small pump station mainly
for sanitary flow, not to be confused with the big pump station for the Euclid Creek Tunnel.
Basically, the pump station gets dry weather sanitary flow from the north side of Euclid Creek to
the southside into the sewer system.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

August 15,20l9

Page II of 13

There are 2 distinct sections or areas: the Lakeshore interceptor area and the Marcella and East
185lh Street area. The latter section is the section the Water Pollution Control team is addressing
on a similar project, but that ?ow will also go into the Euclid Creek Tunnel. From a stormwater
or wet weather perspective, the District built the Lakeshore Boulevard Relief Sewer which
basically parallel?s the 24-inch Lakeshore Interceptor. The Lakeshore Boulevard Relief is a 66-
inch pipe. When the 24?inch interceptor fills up it then spills and draps down into the 66-inch pipe
providing enhanced capacity to this neighborhood.

From a wet weather perspective there are separate storm outfalls. Mr. Lopata indicated the areas
on the presentation. He said there are 72-inch pipes, and on the lake, a 60-inch pipe, 42 and 24-
inch pipes. Those are separate storm systems. There are 3 in the area: CSO 208, CSO 239
which is right next to the Euclid Creek Pump Station and then CSO 209 is on the south side of the
creek.

Mr. Lopata stated Water Pollution Control is building the other arm of this project called the
Marcella and 185?h Street Reliel?Sewer, which is currently under construction.

The previous Lakeshore Interceptor? the small 24-inch sewer? goes to Euclid Creek Pump Station
and it had a 36-inch outfall to the C80 239. However, this sewer is greatly impacted by the Euclid
Creek water levels so the District had to address that issue. There is a lot of maintenance put into
the pump station as well as a back?ow preventer that was leaking back?ow in through CSO 239.
The ineffectiveness of the Lakeshore Interceptor sewer actually leads to overflows at C80 208.
All those things led to high potential for residential basement flooding.

Mr. Lopata showed a slide of the Lakeshore Interceptor and indicated how as the sewer ?ows
down the path toward the creek and the creek level rises, the creek actually puts up a big roadblock
to the flow and it causes the hydraulic grade line to back up in all ofthe manholes which potentially
can lead to sewer or basement ?ooding.

The key to the project is the Lakeshore Boulevard Relief Sewer. This had to basically drop the
flow and go underneath the Euclid Creek to get the flow to the Euclid Creek Tunnel. The sanitary
?ow still tries to get to the pump station. When it spills into the Lakeshore Boulevard relief sewer,
it then drops about 60 feet, goes underneath the Euclid Creek and then drops another 140 feet into
the Euclid Creek Tunnel. This gave the neighborhood about a ten-year level of service which is
the highest the District has in the service area.

Other improvements are the outfall for CSO 208, which is down to zero overflows up to the 25-
year event from a C80 standpoint. The outfall experienced trouble due to the high lake levels in
the last couple of years as well as big storms causing erosion along the lakeshore. The District put
large break wall boulders both in front of the outfall and to the sides to keep the debris out of the
way ofthe outfall which improved the level of service.

The Euclid Creek Tunnel goes all the way back to the beginning of the Consent Decree. The
District built the Lakeshore Boulevard Relief Sewer in about 2 years but could not activate until
the tunnel dewatering pump station came online in July 2018. Plow could then be released into

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

August 15, 2019

Page 12 of 13

the Euclid Creek Tunnel which was active up until about March 2019. At that point the District
had to remove the rock plug. The District had to close the gates at ECT 2, 3 and 5 because those
do not affect neighborhoods they are more about environmental bene?t form the flow getting in
the tunnel. The District wanted to leave the ECT 4 connection because it is such an
environmentally and neighborhood sensitive sewer system. The District excavated the rock plug
at ECT which is a 45-foot piece of rock that was left in place when the District did the Euclid
Creek Tunnel and the Dugway Storage Tunnel. As the District removed the rock plug, Lakeshore
Boulevard was left online. A temporary dam was built in ECT 1. The dam allowed flows to be
stored and pumped by the ETDPS from the Lakeshore neighborhood. The rock plug was excavated
in the middle and then the District will line the last section, about 200 feet or so, of the 24-foot
diameter tunnel.

Next, Mr. Lopata displayed a slide of the massive dam that was placed in the tunnel. The tunnel
could get about 14 feet of water on one side of it. It had to be constructed with steel beams and
road plates to keep the flow on the ECT side. He then showed a slide ofthe excavated rock plug
that also showed Euclid Creek Tunnel in the background of the excavator. Next, he discussed the
lining operation which is done with a gigantic form that is 24 feet in diameter and pours sections
of about 20-foot Once the last piece ofdeep tunnel is finished, the District can move into
full activation mode at the Dugway Storage Tunnel as well as open the gates back up at the Euclid
Creek Tunnel.

Mr. Lopata added that the projects that have been talked about for years will be fully activated
with this project including Dugway West, Dugway East, East 140??, Dugway South, and then a
regulator at Superior Avenue.

The Operations and Maintenance Department is also working closely on the interaction of
these projects once they go online and what they will have to do to maintain the gates and pump
down the tunnel.

As far as performance of the system, Mr. Lopata stated that the District looked at the performance
of the system and the rainfall over two years - one year prior to activation and one year since
activation. There were some big intense storms that caused flooding prior to activation. After the
tunnel activation, there have not been any big intensity storms, but there have seen some pretty big
volumes. A storm in late 2018 put about 28 feet of water into the Euclid Creek Tunnel totaling
about 46 million gallons. It was very productive to capture that ?ow that used to go out to the
environment.

He added that this year may have seemed very rainy from looking at different rain gauges.
including Parma, Beachwood and other places. However, along the Easterly Wastewater
Treatment Plant, those big storms just did not fall there.

Mr. Brown added that he appreciated Mr. Lopata?s presentation and that this is a great
accomplishment for the District and for the community.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Regular Meeting

August 15, 2019

Page 13 of l3

VII. Open Session
There were no items.
Public Session (any subject matter)
There were no items.
IX. Executive Session
Mayor Bacci moved pursuant to Ohio Revised Code Section to enter into Executive
Session to consult with the District?s legal counsel concerning disputes involving the District that
are the subject of pending or imminent court action. Roll call vote: all yes, entered into executive
session at 1:30 pm.
X. Approval of Items from Executive Session (if necessary)

X1. Adjournment

MOTION Mayor Stefanik moved and Mayor Bacci seconded the motion to adjourn at 2:20 pm.
Without objection, the motion carried unanimously.

 

mothy J. eter, Secretary
Board of Tr
Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District



Darnell 
Board of Trustees
Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District

