PATIENT EXPERIENCE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
DATE: FEBRUARY 14, 2018
CHAIR: MAUREEN DEE
CHAIR: THOMAS M. MCDONALD
RECORDER: MJ CARTER

TOPIC

PLACE: K-107
CALLED TO ORDER: 10:06 A.M.
ADJOURNED: 11:35 A.M.

X
X
E
X
X
X
X
X
E
X

Akram Boutros, MD, FACHE
Michael Stern
Bernard Boulanger
Sara Laskey, MD
Jane Platten
Melissa Kline
Larry Chadwick
John Moss
Nabil Chehade, MD
Seona Goerndt

E
X

Patricia Morgan, PFA
Laurel Domanski Diaz, PFA
Johanna Hamm, PFA

DISCUSSION

Review of Minutes

Minutes from the December 6th meeting approved as written.

Overall Strategies

Dr. Laskey introduced the new director of Patient Experience, Seona Goerndt, and new board
member Larry Chadwick to the board.
Dr. Laskey presented overall Patient Experience strategies to the board. To align with a 2017
system goal, MetroHealth ambulatory clinics reached a target for recommend this practice with an
accumulative rating of 90.6%. Several clinics reached the stretch target of 91.7%. Credit is given
for scores of 9 or 10.
MetroHealth as seen an increase in the number of returned/answered surveys. The current number
of returned/completed survey stands at 95,540.
Patient loyalty progress. Many clinics made improvements moving their patient loyalty scores.
Bedford who now serves the Lee Harvard patient population after Lee Harvard closed, has
managed to improve their score while taking on the additional patient load. This is a very
impressive achievement.
Complaints and grievances overall went down. Per 10,000 visits there were 22 complaints and
grievances as compared to 2016 were we received 37 complaints and grievances per 10,000
visits. The initiative to respond to our patients within 7 days target 14 days outside limit. Year was
at 74% by Dec we were at closure in 28 days we were at 100%. By Q4 at 100%.

1

X

X
X

Invited:
Terence Monnolly
Dr. J. B. Silvers
Vanessa L. Whiting
Mr. Mitchell C. Schneider

Presenter:
Diane Suchetka
Jennifer Lastic

ACTION ITEM/FOLLOW UP

 Patient Experience Board of Trustees Committee
Minutes – December 6, 2017
Continued

TOPIC

DISCUSSION
Decrease in access to care issues especially in phone and wait times at the clinics. There was an
increase in complaints and grievances about billing and the billing statement issues, specifically
what people are seeing in the statement. Patient Experience is working with Revenue Cycle and
Financial Services on how the billing statement can be improved.
Internal goals: Nursing communication. With help from Melissa Kline and her team, we increased
over half of in-patient nursing units to move above the 50th percentile
2018 Initiatives for Consumer Customer Experience:
Patient Experience will be focusing on four key areas in 2018:
• Monitor access
• Living our brand, Welcome. Listen. Care.
• Reputation Management
• Communicating with our customers for ongoing loyalty, retention and share of wallet
Monitoring access:
Expansion of HUMM real-time feedback throughout inpatient units. Improved service recovery
response via real-time email and phone survey methodology.
Happy or Not stands in all outpatient facilities and clinics will provide immediate feedback.
We’re initialing post-discharge phone call pilot with the emergency department. Our plan is to
phone every patient discharged from the main emergency department and see if we can
understand and improve any ED scores. Goal 1 have immediate touch point with patient to find out
if there is service what was it and how can we change it. 2. Getting right discharge instructions or
post-med or appointment or med clarification and they are also access issues we want to address.
The information will help the ED focus on one item, work on it, address it and make a positive
change.
We’ll be utilizing the happy or Not in all the outpatient facilities and clinics which will enable us to
have immediate feedback on patient visits. We will then be able to address concerns and be able
to change them in the moment. Utilizing Happy or Not will help us improve the ED scores.
Welcome. Listen. Care. (WLC):
WLC focuses on living our brand, Welcome. Listen. Care. Caring People Caring for People, every
encounter is an opportunity. Two newly created videos were shown and Dr. Laskey discussed

2

ACTION ITEM/FOLLOW UP

 Patient Experience Board of Trustees Committee
Minutes – December 6, 2017
Continued

TOPIC

DISCUSSION
how they will be utilized in the roll out of WLC. WLC was piloted at the W150th ambulatory surgery
center and at West Park. Employee feedback was positive. The pilots are moving to Parma State
Road, and the Broadway sites.
This training emphasis how we all welcome, listen and care in our unique way. This is part of a
personal and bigger brand that we need to emphasis to our employees. One of the things we’re
doing is capturing the stories of how our employees are doing that. These stories did become part
of the basic training. The videos will reside on YouTube and available for multiple viewings.
Reputation Management:
In her new role as Manager Reputation Management, Diane Suchetka is focusing on management
of MetroHealth’s reputation. Reputation management can mean helping with crisis situations to
someone tripping in a crack in the side walk. All situations effect our reputation.
Diane is working to improve MetroHealth’s Improve Glass Door ratings. Average rating on Glass
Door is 3.3. MetroHealth is at 3.7 as of Jan 1, 2018. As of February 14, our rating is up to 3.9.
The highest rated companies are at 4.5 and if MetroHealth’s ratings would move higher any faster
it would look suspicious and we don’t want our credibility questioned. Glass Door is predominantly
viewed by millennials and out-of-towners. GD is becoming more important.
Our next goal is to improve MetroHealth’s ratings on Yelp. Yelp reviews are not great for
MetroHealth. Individual providers get good ratings but the system doesn’t. Getting a negative
review retracted is near impossible. A labial comment or threats are some of the few instances
where negative comments will be removed. Yelp will ding an institution if you panhandle
recommendations.
Reputation management and Patient Experience are working together to write a response protocol.
We want the responses to be well written
Patients who score us high on rate this hospital or recommend to friends/family are being asked to
also add a review on Google, Facebook, HealthGrades, and Vitals.
We will be responding to compliments and complaints on our own website in Q2; and we will
consider responding to targeted issues on external websites in Q3 and Q4. We believe less than
two other health systems in the country are currently doing this. Under our current system traffic to
individual provider pages increased 17% in the first year. The new website will allow for better

3

ACTION ITEM/FOLLOW UP

 Patient Experience Board of Trustees Committee
Minutes – December 6, 2017
Continued

TOPIC

DISCUSSION
Google analytics.
The OPX goal for 2018 is to increase provider reviews by 5-20%. If in Q2 we see negative reviews
we will have to solve the problem. We will evaluate effectiveness and move forward in Q3 and Q4.
Improving communication with our patients will be reached via working with our Patient and Family
Advisors, working with Patient Experience and other resources. Our goal is to understand and
develop a comprehensive outreach plan by Q4.

Humm Feedback

Jennifer Lastic Supervisor gave the committee an update on Humm. Humm is a real-time
feedback platform where patients are invited to share feedback on a touchscreen tablet while in our
care.
Humm Implementation:
Humm was piloted on 6C and 8C in November of 2016. Medicine floors were added in August of
2017 followed by the Surgery floors. Starting in 2018 Critical Care units were added and the
Medical centers at Parma and Cleveland Heights were added in February. As of 2017 there have
been a total of 8,300 feedback session.
The Humm program offers service recovery opportunities. When the patient gives negative
feedback, it allows the manager to follow up with the patient and work to resolve all concerns while
the patient is still receiving care.
Humm dashboards are located the nursing stations on all the floors. Only positive comments and
feedback can be seen by staff which bolsters staff and keeps staff engaged. Responses from both
our patients and staff have been overwhelming positive.
Humm: Real-time Feedback for Residents:
Patient Experience approved Humm to create a program designed specifically to obtain patient
feedback on our residents. In collaboration with Marcie Becker, Drs., Zack, Magliola, Laskey and
Jennifer Lastic worked to create a milestone-based question bank and the initial process/structure
of the program. Pilots launched in Family Medicine and Emergency Medicine Resident programs.
In Q1 of 2018 Humm will launch in OB/GYN, Med/Peds, Pediatrics, PM&R and the ENT Resident

4

ACTION ITEM/FOLLOW UP

 Patient Experience Board of Trustees Committee
Minutes – December 6, 2017
Continued

TOPIC

DISCUSSION
programs.

Next Meeting: 2018 Calendar May 9, 2018; D K-107; 10:00 a.m. - Noon

5

ACTION ITEM/FOLLOW UP

 