Cleveland/Cuyahoga Workforce Development Board – Area
Friday, February 15, 2019 Meeting Notes – APPROVED 5/17/19

Last Name

First
Name

Agency

Last Name

First
Name

Agency

WDB Members
Brown
Carter
Ebersole
Gallucci
Grossman
Jankowski
Judd
Marbury
O’Malley

Marzell
Ted
David
Grace
Aaron
Pam
Margy
Shana
Dan

Brickner
Carey
Dermer
Emery
Greenwell

Frank
Lauren
Dan
Amy
Steve

Rockwell Automation
County Dept. of Development
City Dept. of Development
NOACA
Alliance Solutions Group
Aspire Greater Cleveland
Executive Arrangements
GCP
North Shore AFL-CIO

Shank
Shelnick
Smith
Thomas, Jr.
Thomas
Tubbs
Vaughan
Vesy
Wright

Jason
Kim
LaToya
Felton
Kim
Micki
James
Deborah
Sheila

Plumbers Local 55 (JATC)
University Hospitals
Fifth Third Bank
Cleveland Public Library
Christopher Amira Studio
FIT Technologies
JDD, Inc.
Deaconess Foundation
The Good Community Foundation

OhioMeansJobs Cleveland-Cuyahoga County Staff
Kelley
Kilbane
Megenhardt
Trego

Mary
Grace
Dave
Diana

Guests
Jeff Whitfield
Monique Umphrey
Natoya Walker Minor
Paula Kertes
Rebecca Kusner
Barbara Andelman
Jay Bayhurst

I.

II.

(VOC) Hollard Freight
*William Gary Rep -Tri-C
City of Cleveland
Tri-C Aspire
R4Workforce
Centers for Families & Children
Towards Employment

Adam Artman
Debbie Perkel
Adam Snyder
Lynn Bajorek
Gretchen Sullivan
Anthony Adkisson
Reanin McRoberts

Ohio Guidestone
MAGNET
MAGNET
Maher & Maher
Maher & Maher
Maher & Maher
Maher & Maher

Call to Order/Welcome & Introductions:
Chair Tubbs called the meeting to order and introduced new member, Pam Jankowski and introduced the
Strategic Planning Consultants from Maher & Maher.
Approval of WDB Minutes:
Motion to approve minutes from 11/16/18 meeting:
Moved by K. Shelnick
Seconded F. Thomas
Motion Passed

III.

Voice of the Customer:
Introduced by Tom Hasson, Jeff Whitfield, Driver Instructor at Holland Freight, has been in the trucking business
since 1985. Holland hired Jeff away from Great Lakes Truck Driving. Beginning in May 2018, OMJ CC has hosted
3 recruiting events for CDL drivers as well as approved 4 OJT plans for their dock to driver program. Jeff’s skills
are now being utilized in training and mentoring and oversees the Cleveland, Buffalo, Akron and Youngstown
terminals. Jeff has been involved in all aspects of the industry from dispatch to driving duties of local, over-theroad and regional transportation. New hires work full time with overtime. Most just want to stay due to working
conditions and benefits (they pay for their hospitalization). Trucking industry is growing in Cleveland area and
need a lot of drivers. They are moving into other Ohio counties. Jeff knew about OMJ CC while working at
GLTDS. He is in contact with OMJ CC almost daily. They are losing 469 driver this year due to retirement. Starting
wage is $16/hour, after 8 hours overtime, work no less than 10 hours per day but usually 12-13/hour shifts. New
hires have school 4 hours per day for two months then make $18.48 hour, on probation for 30 days. Long haul
drivers get 43 cents per mile and union wage of $18.88/hour. After 5 years currently top out at $23.45 but will
be increasing with new contract. Average yearly wage is $75,000-82,000. Holland has a high retention rate.

IV.

Business Session – Executive Director’s Report:
a. Amendments 3 Board policies:
 Transitional Jobs Policy: Transitional jobs are time-limited, wage-paid work experiences that are
subsidized up to 100 percent with WIOA funds. Enrolled WIOA Adults with barriers to employment who
1

 are chronically unemployed or who have an inconsistent work history would be eligible for a subsidized
Transitional Job. Transitional Jobs provide individuals with work experience and an opportunity to
develop important workplace skills within the context of an employee-employer relationship
Motion to approve Transitional Jobs Policy:
Moved by: D. Merriman
Seconded G. Gallucci
Motion Passed

Needs Related Payment Policy: Needs Related Payments are a supportive service authorized
by WIOA. Needs-related payments provide financial assistance to WIOA participants for the purpose of
enabling them to participate in training. This policy would allow Needs Related payments to be provided
when it is determined that an individual’s ongoing resources and income from all other sources are
insufficient to support themselves while in WIOA-funded training. The suggested daily reimbursement
for Needs Related Payments are $25.00.

Motion to approve Need Related Payment Policy:
Moved by: J. Vaughan
Seconded D. O’Malley
Motion Passed
 Customized Training Policy: Eliminates a 50% match for large employers – match for all companies is
now no less than 33%. Eliminates the $50,000 maximum employer contract per fiscal year.
Motion to approve Customized Training Policy:
Moved by: D. Vesy
Seconded A. Grossman
Motion Passed
b. New RFPs and Contracting Update:
 Youth RFP - CJFS did joint RFP; currently reviewing and will have in place by 7/01/19.
 Communications & Outreach RFP – received 11 proposals. First went to county legal and they said
Singleton Partners were allowed to bid even though they have worked on OMJ CC outreach when on loan
from the state. Now county says must exclude Singleton, cannot use remaining 10 submissions and must
change RFP and must procure again to eliminate impression of impropriety in awarding contract with
inside advantage. Due in June.
c. Workforce Development Board Certification Update:
 Executive Director will be submitting required documentation and signatures to obtain board certification
from the State for 2019.
d. Adult and Youth Performance:
 In-Demand Jobs Week for youth (March 11-15). M. Kelley will send out calendar electronically. Youth
Council co-chair, K. Thomas, discussed event to help students with barriers and those not going on to
college. Barriers for young adults include can get a job but not keep a job; filling out applications
incorrectly can prevent applicant from being hired. Bill being introduced to eliminate certain questions
from applications that may present barriers to hiring. During IDJW, there will be a core group made up
of some board members that will be at each event to assist and support youth. There will be site tours,
e.g., Lincoln Electric. On Friday, the last day, approximately 50 employers will come to talk with youth.
 D. Megenhardt gave Quarterly Performance Report. OMJ CC places 43% of all jobs statewide while
receiving only 15% of the state’s annual workforce budget. We look at retention rates at 6 months and
one year and have an 87% retention rate. Board members indicated important to report to our
stakeholders and constituents, to articulate in the market place our successes, show how we have
improved and have maintained this level of success for over 7 years. This is an opportunity to address
most employment problems facing community, how we speak to The 2 Tomorrows initiative and how we
work with the Sector Partnerships.
V.

WDB Session – Chair’s Report:
a. Strategic Planning Process and Discussion:
Maher & Maher was selected for the upcoming strategic planning project and board retreats. Project
manager, Lynn Bajorek and Gretchen Sullivan gave a presentation with the following phases and timelines:
 PHASES:
o Phase I: Project Set-Up – Project kick-off meeting and finalize project plan
2

 Phase II: Strategic Planning Research – Existing material and reports; stakeholder engagement
strategy (survey, focus groups, interviews); synthesize of findings
o Phase III: Strategic Plan Development – Strategic Functions Committee planning meetings (draft
vision, mission, and operating principles); full Board half-day retreat; work with Board to finalize plan
goals and develop tactics for Board consideration; 2nd full Board half-day retreat and other
stakeholders consultation (identify/refine plan tactics and gather any additional plan content input)
o Phase IV: Strategic Plan Completion – work with Board to finalize plan, share draft plan with Strategic
Functions Committee for review and edits; finalize plan for presentation to Board
TIMELINE:
o February: Project Kickoff
o *February – April: Stakeholder engagement (survey, focus groups, interviews)
o April: Strategic Functions Committee Planning Meeting (1/2 Day)
o May: Full Board Retreat (1/2 Day)
o May – July: Draft and edit vision, mission, operating principles, and goals
o August: Full Board Retreat (1/2 Day) and stakeholder consultation meetings
o September: Validate and finalize Strategic Plan
*During discussion, was decided to do interviews late March/early April instead; to include input from
Cleveland Mayor and County Executive prior to retreat; inform best practices before May.
SUGGESTIONS:
We are not starting from scratch but building on what we already have. Look at:
o What were barriers to rolling out previous plan?
o What were barriers to implement previous plan?
o Which goals were actually implemented, which were discarded, which ones didn’t the Board get
around to implementing?
o





Motion to approve holding Strategic Plan half-day retreat on May 17, 2019:
Moved by: J. Shank
Seconded F. Thomas
Motion Passed
b. Standing Committees Report:
Governance – Chair Shank reported focused on updating CCWDB By-Laws that were approved in November.
Updated by-laws stress requirement of attending 2 out of 4 annual meetings (or assign a proxy or alternate
to attend, preferably someone who would be next new board member when your term expires so they are
familiar with board issues). Will post bylaws on OMJ CC website per Sunshine Law (Ohio Open Meeting Act).
Will start implementation of posting agendas, minutes, other material. Better technology to access board
information and technology training and/or education for board members who need it.
Youth – On February 12th created sub-committee on Youth Council for policy direction and advising Board,
aligning with Board policies; changing meetings to quarterly; more Learn and Earn activities.
Strategic Functions – working closely on 2019-23 strategic planning process to create new plan for next four
years.
VI.

Next Meeting: May 17th (board retreat for strategic planning – 8am-1pm, location/details TBD)
Remaining 2019 WDB meetings (8 am – 10 am): August 16, November 15

ADJOURNED
Recorded by Diana Trego

3

 