NORTHEAST OHIO AREAWIDE COORDINATING AGENCY
MEMORANDUM
TO:

Water Quality Subcommittee Members

Rich Blasick, Environmental Manager, Northeast District Office, Ohio EPA
Jeff Brandon, Trustee Chair, Montville Township
Kenneth Carney, County Engineer, Lorain County
James W. Dvorak, Commissioner, Geauga County
David Covell, Health Commissioner, Lorain County Public Health
Michael Dever, Director of Public Works, Cuyahoga County
Kyle Dreyfuss-Wells, CEO, Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District
James R. Gills, County Engineer, Lake County
Janine Rybka, District Administrator, Cuyahoga Soil and Water Conservation District
Persis Sosiak, Commissioner of Health, Cleveland Department of Public Health
George Warnock, Grand River Watershed Coordinator, Western Reserve Land Conservancy
Jason A. Wood, Chief of Public Affairs, Department of Public Utilities, City of Cleveland

FROM:

James R. Gills, Chair

DATE:

June 14, 2019

RE:

Water Quality Subcommittee
Friday, June 21, 2019 from 12:00 to 1:30 p.m.
NOACA Offices
1299 Superior Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio

Please note that in addition to the members listed above, any interested Board members are
welcome to attend.
I look forward to seeing you on Friday, June 21st, 2018 at noon at the NOACA offices.

 NORTHEAST OHIO AREAWIDE COORDINATING AGENCY
Friday, June 21, 2019, 12:00 – 1:30 p.m.
NOACA Offices
1299 Superior Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114
WATER QUALITY SUBCOMMITTEE AGENDA
1. Minutes of March 15, 2019, Meeting

Page
1-1

2. Public Comment

Oral

3. Chair’s/Executive Director’s Report

Oral

4. Action Items
a. Facility Planning Area (FPA) modification request:
i. Avon Lake/LORCO Phase I FPA – Lorain County FPA Modification
Request along Hawke Road in Columbia Township

4-1

5. Presentation/Discussion Items
a. Future Action
i. Quarterly Update: 208 Plan Development Process

5-1

b. Information
i. 208 Plan Current FPA Modification Policies

5-3

6. Reports/Updates
a. Watershed Activities Update (Roundtable Discussion)

Oral

7. Old Business
a. NOACA Board Action: June 14, 2019
i. NOACA Resolution No. 2019-035: Geauga County FPA Prescription for Wastewater Treatment Modification in
Chardon Township
ii. Elyria FPA – Avon Lake/LORCO Phase I FPA Modification
Request along Grafton Road in Eaton Township
8. New Business
9. Adjourn
Next Regular Meeting: September 20, 2019 –12:00 - 1:30 p.m. NOACA Offices

Oral

 Agenda Item No. 1

MINUTES

 

Water Quality Subcommittee Meeting
March 15, 2019
NOACA Offices
1299 Superior Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44114
Present: Please see the attached attendance record.
Engineer Jim Gills, Chair of the Water Quality Subcommittee, convened the meeting at 12:05 p.m.
Meeting Minutes
A motion was made by Mr. Dave Marquard to approve the minutes of the Water Quality
Subcommittee meeting held on December 21, 2018. The motion was seconded by Mr. Jared
Bartley. The motion passed by voice vote.
Public Comments
No public comments were made at this meeting.
Executive Director’s Report
Ms. Grace Gallucci welcomed members; thanked Engineer Gills for serving as the Chair of the
Water Quality Subcommittee this year; and recognized Ms. Kyle Dreyfuss-Wells for serving as
the Water Quality Subcommittee Chair last year.
Introductions
Subcommittee members introduced themselves.
ACTION ITEMS
Geauga County FPA – Prescriptions for Wastewater Treatment Modification in Chardon
Township
Mr. Eric Akin stated that the Geauga County Department of Water Resources submitted to
NOACA a modification request for the transfer of 124 parcels (141 acres) and a prescription
change in Chardon Township from “no sewer service” to “may be sewered” to allow for the
connection of a subdivision. Mr. Akin stated that the affected parties are Geauga County and
Chardon Township. He noted that in 2015, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
issued the Director’s Final Findings and Orders to construct a sanitary sewer system.
Mr. Akin reviewed the affected area, wastewater issue timeline, sewage system summary,
notification requirement, and analysis. He stated that with Board approval, NOACA staff will
submit the FPA update to Ohio EPA for certification by the Governor, and following Board
approval, staff will transmit copies of the resolution to the appropriate federal, state and local
agencies.

1-1

 Mr. Bob Klaiber asked why homeowners were not asked to replace their septic systems. He said
package plants are not easy to operate and are tough to meet permit requirements. Mr. Akin
stated that very small lots are not viable for a replacement system.
Mr. Rich Blasick stated that an onsite upgrade is not possible because the subdivision is old and
has very small lots, making it difficult to manage a large number of discharging systems.
Engineer Gills asked how close the nearest existing sewer is to these parcels. Mr. Akin said the
closest sewer is a couple of miles away in the Village of Chardon and connection is not allowed
without annexation.
Engineer Gills stated that small systems are not easy to operate, maintain or get the proper
discharge.
Mr. Bartley asked if the subdivision west of the parcels is new. Mr. Akin said yes and noted that
the subdivision has large lots that would allow for replacement of the system.
Mr. Bartley asked if a request will be submitted next year for the newer part of the subdivision.
Mr. Akin said he was not aware of a request, but noted that had there been an issue, it would
have been looked at prior to planning the project.
A motion was made by Mr. Klaiber to recommend the Geauga County FPA Prescriptions for
Wastewater Treatment modification in Chardon Township to the Planning and Programming
Committee (PPC). The motion was seconded by Mr. Marquard. The motion passed by voice
vote.
Elyria FPA – Avon Lake / LORCO Phase I FPA Modification Request for Parcel No.
1100096000050 in Eaton Township
Mr. Akin stated that the City of Elyria submitted to NOACA a modification request to transfer one
parcel (1) from Elyria FPA to Avon Lake/LORCO Phase I FPA and to change the prescriptions
from “areas served by onsite systems” to “sewers expected within 20 years.” He noted that the
affected parties are the City of Elyria, City of Avon Lake, LORCO, Lorain County, and Eaton
Township.
Mr. Akin reviewed the affected area and noted that the parcel has a failing onsite sewage
treatment system (STS) and Lorain County Public Health (Health Department) has provided the
homeowner with the option to replace their onsite system or connect to the LORCO gravity
sanitary sewer line to the east, which is approximately 150 feet away. Mr. Akin said there is not
adequate room for an off-lot discharging system and noted that a discharging permit would be
required from Ohio EPA and monthly monitoring would need to be done by the homeowner.
Mr. Akin mentioned that the Health Department has allowed the homeowner to “re-establish” the
failing onsite STS until a new system can be installed or there is a plan to connect to the LORCO
sewer within six months of the request being approved by the NOACA Board.
Mr. Akin mentioned that this request is part of a larger FPA modification request currently under
review by NOACA that involves the transfer of 13 parcels (73.5 acres) from Elyria FPA to the
Avon Lake / LORCO Phase I FPA. He noted that Lorain County has an objection to the larger
FPA modification; NOACA staff recommended this action and the City of Elyria has agreed to it
because of public health issues.

1-2

 Mr. Akin reviewed the notification requirement and analysis. He stated that with Board approval,
NOACA staff will submit the FPA update to Ohio EPA for certification by the Governor, and
following Board approval, staff will transmit copies of the resolution to the appropriate federal,
state and local agencies.
Mr. Klaiber asked Ms. Jill Lis if an easement was needed to run a lateral back to the LORCO
sewer. He asked Mr. Gene Toy if the parcel butts up to the LORCO sewer.
Mr. Toy said he was not certain about the accuracy of the FPA map and thought the parcel butted
up against the sewer.
Mr. Akin stated that in 2016 there was originally one big parcel that was divided into three smaller
parcels. He noted that the smaller parcel has a house and a failing system and does not have
access to a sewer. He said he believed the owner could get easement access to the local sewer
line.
Mr. Klaiber stated that bootlegging a connection out the back would cause a problem for people
who live west of SR 57. He noted that the recommendation is a short-term solution to the problem.
Mr. Marquard asked if the Health Department inspected and knows the condition of the adjoining
or surrounding septic systems. Ms. Lis said the Health Department looked at the systems, but
did not evaluate them.
Mr. Marquard commented that the proposed recommendation is not good planning. He stated
that the initial objective is to protect the water and make sure it does not get polluted. He noted
that as time goes on, there will continue to be intermittent switchovers into a different FPA, which
would decrease the feasibility of being able to extend sewers in the other FPA. He said there is
the potential to lose the ability to charge people for frontage assessments when sewers are
extended. He said it will make it harder for Lorain County to extend the sewers in that area by
moving the parcel to the LORCO FPA. He noted that doing one is reasonable, but if others are
done for an extended period of time, it could create a poor planning arrangement by having
parcels all over the place going to one FPA, thereby causing the other FPA to lose its ability to
extend the sewer and recover the cost for it. He said he hopes something gets done quickly.
Mr. Frank Greenland agreed with Mr. Marquard.
Mr. Greenland stated that something needs to be done because this issue is a public health threat.
He noted that piecemeal requests done lot by lot is a recipe for disaster. He said the remedy is
to develop sound planning for the FPA and stick to it.
Engineer Gills asked Mr. Blasick to comment on Ohio EPA’s preference for resolving this FPA
issue. Mr. Blasick asked if Lorain County has a timeline for installing a sewer down Grafton Road.
Mr. Klaiber said there is no timeline, but it is part of Lorain County’s long-range plan. Mr. Blasick
expressed some concern that the homeowner could spend $15,000 on a discharging system and
then have to spend more money later on the fix up versus a one-time connection.
Mr. Klaiber stated that if the long lateral backs up in the middle of the night, it would be difficult to
get equipment to the area to flush out the sewer. Mr. Klaiber asked Mr. Toy if LORCO envisions
laterals going out the back of properties. Mr. Toy said he believed that is the plan.
Mr. Toy stated that LORCO and Elyria agreed not to piecemeal the modification, but to do it all
as one piece. He mentioned that all parties, except one, are in agreement with the larger

1-3

 modification. He noted that LORCO has the ability to maintain an easement where the sewer
runs and the ability to reach the back to maintain and inspect the manholes.
Mr. Klaiber asked if the original proposal included the area up to SR 57. Mr. Akin showed the
original proposed modification area on the FPA map.
Mr. Klaiber commented that an FPA boundary line down the center of the road would cause a
problem.
Ms. Lis stated that requests have been submitted to NOACA one by one because of broader
issues in Lorain County. She mentioned that NOACA staff has met with the DMAs in Lorain
County to try and get them to come to a solution with areas that have unresolved issues. She
noted that requests are going to continue to be submitted one by one to find the best solution until
the ultimate best solution is determined.
Ms. Gallucci said it was unfortunate that Lorain County does not have an FPA boundary plan
because cities and townships have not been able to come to a consensus on the boundaries.
She said staff will focus on this FPA issue and try to get to the root of the problem and get the
affected parties to come to a consensus.
Engineer Gills stated that the connection would go to the back of the house, around the house,
and into a sewer easement. He asked if the easement will be in the front or back of the house.
Mr. Akin said the sewer line was installed at the rear of the property. Engineer Gills asked if there
is a sewer in the street. Mr. Akin said no. Engineer Gills asked if there would be a connection to
an existing sewer 150 feet away. Mr. Akin said yes. Engineer Gills asked if the sewer would
serve the open area between the property and the existing sewer line in the future for the other
lots. Mr. Akin said that was going to be discussed later at this meeting. Engineer Gills asked why
all the lots are not being put in at the same time, including the vacant lots that need to be
connected to the existing sewer.
Ms. Gallucci stated that the original request was very large so NOACA bifurcated it into three
requests; two moved ahead, while one stayed behind.
Ms. Gallucci asked Mr. Akin to pull up the slides on the larger modification request from the City
of Elyria. She noted that the individual parcel was presented to the Subcommittee now because
of the breakdown of the septic system. She said had there not been an emergency to get that
item done, the request would have been included under future action.
INFORMATION ITEM
Elyria FPA – Avon Lake/LORCO Phase I FPA Modification Request in Eaton Township
Mr. Akin provided background on the larger modification request in Eaton Township. He stated
that the prescriptions need to be updated to show sanitary sewer connections and to reflect the
current sewer availability within and near the transfer area. He noted that the affected areas are
the City of Elyria, City of Avon Lake, LORCO, Lorain County and Eaton Township.
Mr. Akin reviewed the affected area, wastewater conditions, notification requirement, City of Elyria
– LORCO support, and Lorain County’s objection to the modification and preliminary sewer plan
(proposed and current infrastructure).

1-4

 Mr. Akin stated that the next steps involve NOACA staff following up with information requests,
attending the affected jurisdictions meeting, preparing a consistency review, and presenting a
recommendation to the Water Quality Subcommittee at its meeting on June 21, 2019.
Mr. Marquard asked if LORCO’s existing sewer is designed to accept the flow from the Elyria
FPA. Mr. Akin said he was not involved in the design discussions, but was told LORCO has the
capacity to accept the flow. Mr. Akin stated that the original plan was to get the gravity sewer line
to the pump station to the north for areas served further west. Mr. Akin asked Mr. Toy if that was
accurate. Mr. Toy said yes.
Mr. Klaiber said it would be problematic to run a long lateral out the back of the property and noted
that Lorain County would discourage it. Engineer Gills asked the Subcommittee for a
recommended solution. Mr. Klaiber said the septic system should be replaced.
Engineer Gills said Ohio EPA believes it would be problematic if a homeowner ends up spending
double money if a sewer becomes available in a few years. Mr. Klaiber said that is the risk.
Ms. Gallucci stated that Lorain County would prefer that all issues get resolved all at once. She
noted that in a previous discussion with former Commissioner Ted Kalo, he recommended
replacing the septic system. Ms. Gallucci agreed with Mr. Klaiber that the proposed solution
would be problematic. She said the NOACA Board prefers that the affected parties come to an
agreement on FPA modifications. She noted that if this request is presented to the Board, there
is a high probability it will be sent back to the Subcommittee and/or given to staff to continue
working on both components.
Engineer Gills asked if the septic tank problem is critical. Ms. Lis said there is no timeline or
funding for the other item that was discussed and noted that the issues will come back to NOACA.
She said the Health Department needs to find a solution for the homeowner who is having the
problem.
Mr. Bartley asked if one parcel was split into three smaller parcels. Mr. Akin said yes. Mr. Bartley
asked if the one parcel has a different owner than the other two parcels. Mr. Akin said yes.
Engineer Gills referenced an issue that happened in the past involving the Ohio River, West
Virginia EPA, and the City of Wheeling. He noted that residents were pressured to get new septic
systems, while no pressure was put on Wheeling for dumping bacteria into the Ohio River.
Engineer Gills asked the Subcommittee for a motion to either move the Elyria FPA modification
request forward or move the modification request with a solution forward.
Mr. Rachid Zoghaib asked if anyone knew the cost difference between the two options. Engineer
Gills asked Mr. Akin if the two options are equal. Mr. Akin asked Mr. Toy what is LORCO’s
connection fee. Mr. Toy said $8,000. Mr. Akin said replacing the septic tank would cost more
than adding a connection to the sewer.
Ms. Lis stated that it would cost up to $13,000 for a new septic system, plus additional costs for
the Ohio EPA permit, monitoring, and the service contract with a contractor to service the system
every 6 months. She mentioned that Lorain County has a local definition of what it determines to
be accessible for a homeowner to connect to a sewer. She noted that if a home is within 200 feet
of a new sewer, the Health Department would require the homeowner to connect to it; and if there
was no FPA issue, the homeowner would still be required to connect to a sewer.

1-5

 Engineer Gills asked the Subcommittee for a recommendation. No comments were made so
Engineer Gills tabled the Elyria FPA modification request.
PRESENTATION / DISCUSSION ITEMS
Quarterly Update: 208 Plan Development Process
Ms. Pamela Davis provided background on the 208 Plan and NOACA’s responsibility as a water
quality management agency. She provided an overview of the work done by the 208 Plan
Working Group and Chapter Focus Groups. She noted that the 208 Plan update included
reviewing and editing chapter text, and developing regional strategies, agency recommendations,
and NOACA policies.
Ms. Davis stated that NOACA staff is planning to do additional outreach for the 208 Plan and has
developed two questionnaires: one for the “208 Public” and the other for designated management
agencies (DMAs), local health districts and affected jurisdictions. Ms. Davis reviewed the types
of questions on the questionnaires. She stated that the questionnaires will be distributed
throughout the region using social media, Facebook, Twitter, direct mail, public meetings, and
stakeholders.
Ms. Davis asked the Water Quality Subcommittee to review the two questionnaires and
distribution plan and forward their comments/edits to her at pdavis@mpo.noaca.org by March 22,
2019. Ms. Davis reviewed the following timeline for completing the additional outreach:
•

In March 2019, questionnaires and distribution plan will be finalized.

•

In April 2019, the “208 Public” questionnaire will be released and the outreach meeting
strategy will be completed.

•

In May 2019, the DMA/health district/jurisdiction questionnaire will be released; staff will
analyze the “208 Public” responses; and finalize the outreach meeting strategy.

•

In June 2019, questionnaire responses and the outreach meeting strategy will be
presented to the Water Quality Subcommittee.

Mr. Klaiber mentioned that some people may be sensitive about answering questions related to
basement backups since it is a disclosure item for people looking to sell their house. Ms. Davis
mentioned that one question on the questionnaires asks for a zip code.
Mr. Greenland asked who at the Sewer District will get the questionnaires. Ms. Davis informed
Mr. Greenland that he and Ms. Kyle Dreyfuss-Wells would receive the questionnaires and noted
that the questionnaires will also go to the health commissioners at the health departments; plant
supervisors at the DMAs; and engineers.
Ms. Davis asked the Subcommittee if they believed the questionnaires included the right
questions. No comments were made. She asked members to contact her if they have comments.
2019 Subcommittee Focus Areas
Mr. Joe MacDonald reviewed the purpose, functions, 2018 focus areas, and the following 2019
ongoing focus areas:
•

Implement the Water Quality Strategic Plan recommendations

1-6

 •
•
•

Policies and strategies to manage urban sprawl
Comprehensive region wide sanitary sewer infrastructure map
FPA boundary updates

Ms. Gallucci stated that she hopes the ongoing updates to the Clean Water 2000 Plan will come
to a close this fiscal year. Mr. MacDonald mentioned that the 208 Plan is always being updated
whenever the Board approves an FPA boundary modification request or prescriptions for
wastewater treatment. Ms. Gallucci said she was referring to the overhaul of the new
comprehensive 208 Plan.
Mr. MacDonald stated that meeting agendas and materials will be crafted to accomplish the
identified focus areas for the Subcommittee.
Ms. Gallucci stated that one of the focus areas for the Water Quality Subcommittee will be to
address policies and strategies to manage urban sprawl. She talked about the Medina County –
Wadsworth FPA issue. She mentioned that the Policy Committee will be discussing whether or
not it is appropriate for NOACA to consider issues of development when evaluating FPA boundary
changes. She said the Water Quality Subcommittee will be asked to weigh in on the issue. She
mentioned that staff did an analysis based on a request from Michael Summers, Mayor of City of
Lakewood, who questioned why development was not considered in the Medina CountyWadsworth FPA modification request. Ms. Gallucci mentioned that 50% of the FPA modification
requests submitted to NOACA involve developments.
Mr. Greenland stated that a lot of stuff has been cleaned up over the years; however, some
agreements were drafted between communities that are in conflict and some cleanup is still being
done. He noted that everyone has to be cognizant of agreements being struck outside of 208
planning and not make mistakes going forward. Ms. Gallucci stated that NOACA has to be more
diligent and respectful of its charge. Mr. Greenland said he believed agreements are all about
development. Ms. Gallucci agreed with Mr. Greenland and said she sees some changes being
made to NOACA’s procedures and policies to identify those kinds of things and staff making it
clear to the Board about what is happening.
Reports/Updates
Watershed Activities Update (Roundtable Discussion)
Subcommittee members provided the following updates:
•

Cuyahoga Soil & Water Conservation District (SWCD) – Mr. Bartley stated that
Cuyahoga SWCD is in the process of submitting and updating three different NineElement Nonpoint Source Implementation Strategic Plans (NPS-IS Plans) within the next
week for the Rocky River Watershed, Euclid Creek Watershed, and Cahoon Creek-Porter
Creek Watershed in partnership with Chagrin River Watershed Parters (CRWP).
Mr. Bartley mentioned that a stream restoration project has been completed in Euclid
Creek for the Willoughby-Eastlake School renovation and a stream restoration project is
being done in North Royalton on the east branch of the Rocky River.

•

Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District (Sewer District) - Mr. Greenland stated that the
Sewer District is working on four master plans: Cuyahoga River South (will be completed
soon); Cuyahoga River North; Rocky River; and Lake Erie Tributary and portions of
Chagrin River. He said the plans will help the Sewer District to coordinate intercommunity
storm drainage issues across its service area. Mr. Greenland mentioned that combined

1-7

 sewer overflow (CSO) control programs are rolling; the Euclid Creek Tunnel has been
turned on; and the Dugway Brook Tunnel will be turned on later this year. He noted that
ongoing sanitary sewer evaluation studies are being done across the service area, one at
Heights-Hilltop, which is nearly complete, and three others that will be completed in a year
or two.
•

NOACA - Ms. Davis mentioned that she is working with the West Creek Conservancy and
its consultant on providing mapping support/assistance for the development of NPS-IS
Plans for the headwaters of Chippewa Creek; the Village of Independence on the
Cuyahoga River; and Willow Creek on the Cuyahoga River. She mentioned that NOACA
staff is building some internal resources.

•

Ohio EPA - Mr. Blasick stated that Ohio EPA will begin forwarding NOACA’s FPA
modification updates to the Governor and then annually forwarding the updates at the
beginning of each year. Mr. Blasick mentioned that U.S. EPA has released the Waters of
the United States (WOTUS) definitions and is soliciting comments through April 15, 2019.
He encouraged the Subcommittee to take a look at the latest definitions and submit
comments.

•

Lake County Engineer’s Office - Engineer Gills stated that Lake County received funding
from Ohio EPA’s Water Quality Analysis Simulation Program (WASP) for Kellogg Creek.
He noted that the funding will be used to eliminate Brightwood Lake Dam for a stream
restoration project. He stated that the project is being coordinated by the Lake County
Stormwater Utility and will begin construction next year. Engineer Gills mentioned that
Lake County is looking for the Sewer District to sponsor the project and is hoping to get
an answer in June 2019.

Old Business
Ms. Gallucci announced that future Water Quality Subcommittee agendas will include a Board
update on approved FPA boundary changes. She mentioned that the Medina County –
Wadsworth FPA modification request was approved by the Board in March. She provided details
of the compromise between the affected parties that brought this issue to a close. She noted that
the compromise included a financial compensation and the transfer of customers. Ms. Gallucci
thanked Mr. Akin for his work and the Sewer District, Ohio EPA and Mayor Robert Stefanik for
helping to resolve this issue.
New Business
No new business was discussed at this meeting.
Adjournment
Engineer Jim Gills stated that the next Water Quality Subcommittee meeting will be held at the
NOACA offices on June 21, 2019 at noon. There being no further business, the meeting was
adjourned at 1:10 p.m.

1-8

 NOACA WATER QUALITY SUBCOMMITTEE (WQS)
2019 Attendance Sheet

MEETING DATES

03/15/19

Rich Blasick, NE District Office, Ohio EPA
(Dean Stoll, Alternate)

06/21/19

09/20/19

12/20/19

X

Jeff Brandon, Montville Township
(Adam Friedrick, Alternate)
Ken Carney, Lorain County Engineer
(Bob Klaiber, Alternate)
James W. Dvorak, Geauga County
Commissioner
(Nicholas Gorris, Alternate)
Dave Covell, Health Commissioner
Lorain County Public Health
(Jill Lis, Alternate)

A

A

A

Michael Dever, Director of Public Works,
Cuyahoga County
(David E. Marquard, Alternate)

A

Kyle Dreyfuss-Wells, CEO, NEORSD
(Frank Greenland, Alternate)

A

Jim Gills, Lake County Engineer
(Traci Salkiewicz, Alternate)

X

Jan Rybka, District Administrator
Cuyahoga Soil & Water Conservation District
(Jared Bartley, Alternate)

A

Persis Sosiak, Cleveland Department of Public
Health
(David Hearne, Alternate)

A

George Warnock, Grand River Watershed
Coordinator, Western Reserve Land
Conservancy
(Maurine Orndorff, Alternate)

X

Jason A. Wood, Department of Public Utilities,
City of Cleveland
(Rachid Zoghaib, Alternate)

A

X - Member present

A - Alternate present

1-9

  

 

 

 

 

Water Quality Subcon?rmittee
March 15, 2019, Moon 1:30 pm.

Member Sign-in Sheet

 

MEMBER

SIGNATURE

 

(Dean Stoll, Alternate)

Rich Blasick, NE District Office, Ohio EPA



 

(Adam Friedrick, Alternate)

Jeff Brandon, Montville Township

 

Ken Carney, Lorain County En
(Bob Kiaiber, Alternate)

gineer

 

James W. DvorakrF-GaaugaCounty Commissioner




 

(Nicholas Alternate)-


(Jill Lis, Alternate)

Dave Covell, Lorain County Public Health

 

(David E. Marquard, Alternate)

Michael Dever, Cuyahoga County Public Works

(ya/z?

 


rank Greenland, A ,ernate)

Kyle Dreyfuss?Wells, Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer

 

(Traci Salkiewicz, Alternate)

Jim Gills, Lake County Engineer

 

gem/x,
(\(Jared Bartley, Alternate);


Jan Rybka, Cuyahoga Soil and Water Conservation 

 

(David Hearne, Alternate)

Persis Sosiak, Cleveland Department of Public Health

 

Waurine Orndorff, Alternate)

George Warnock, Western Reserve Land Conservancy

 

 

(Rachid Zoghaib, Alternate)

Jason A. Wood, City of Cleveland

 

 



 

Agenda Item No. 2

PUBLIC COMMENTS

 

Agenda Item No. 3

REPORT

 

Agenda Item No. 4

ACTION ITEMS

 

NORTHEAST OHIO AREAWIDE COORDINATING AGENCY
MEMORANDUM
TO:

NOACA Water Quality Subcommittee

FROM:

Grace Gallucci, Executive Director

DATE:

June 14, 2019

RE:

Facility Planning Area (FPA) Revision Request: Transfer of one (1) parcel from the
Lorain County FPA to the Avon Lake/Lorain County Rural Wastewater District (LORCO)
Phase I FPA in Columbia Township

ACTION REQUESTED
The Water Quality Subcommittee is asked to consider recommending this item to the Planning and
Programming Committee for placement on the Board of Directors’ September 2019 agenda. Specifically, the
item will transfer one (1) parcel (1.0 acre) from the Lorain County FPA to the Avon Lake/LORCO Phase I
(Phase I) FPA in Columbia Township.
BACKGROUND/JUSTIFICATION FOR CURRENT ACTION
LORCO received a request from the property owner of permanent parcel number (PPN) 1200099000009 in
Columbia Township to connect to the LORCO sewer line along Hawke Road (Attachment A). The parcel
currently resides in the Lorain County FPA. In order to connect to LORCO’s sewer line, the parcel must be
transferred to the Phase I FPA (Attachment B). Under the federal Clean Water Act, all sanitary sewer
connections must be within the FPA of the publicly owned treatment works (POTW) that treat the
wastewater.
Columbia Township is not a member of LORCO. To allow for Columbia Township parcels along Hawke
Road to connect to LORCO’s sewers, an agreement was reached between Lorain County, LORCO, the City
of Avon Lake and Columbia Township in 2016. Under the agreement, upon a written request from a
landowner along Hawke Road to connect to LORCO’s sewer line, all parties agree to give their approval for
the FPA change to transfer the requesting parcel(s) from the Lorain County FPA to the Phase I FPA. The
agreement also reaffirms Lorain County’s sewer planning authority as the Designated Management Agency
(DMA) for the Columbia Township parcels along Hawke Road.
LORCO requested letters of support from the City of Avon Lake, Lorain County and Columbia Township on
April 1, 2019. Despite the agreement between these entities, comment letters are still required to fulfill the
notification requirements in Policy 4-6 of the 208 Plan. All affected jurisdictions submitted letters of support
for the FPA modification (attached).
FINANCIAL IMPACT
NOACA’s approval of the boundary change will not result in any financial impact to NOACA.

4-1

 CONCLUSION/NEXT STEPS
Pending Board approval, NOACA staff will submit the updated FPA boundary to Ohio EPA.
GG/ea/8177c

4-2

 DRAFT

¯

AT TA CH M EN T A : CU RR EN T FA CI L I T Y PL AN NI NG A R EA ( F PA )
BO UN DA RY F O R PA R CE L 1 2 0 0 0 9 9 0 0 0 0 0 9 I N C O L U M BI A
TO WN S HI P, L O R A I N C O U NT Y.

5/1/2019

Lorain County FPA Boundaries
Avon Lake

French Creek
Vermilion

Amherst
Elyria

Lorain

Avon Lake/LORCO Phase I

Oberlin

Grafton

Lorain Co.

LaGrange

Lorain County and LORCO

Lorain Co.

Wellington

Lorain Co.

Proposed Changes
NOACA makes no representations or warranties
with respect to the accuracy and/or completeness of the map.

Lorain
County
FPA
Eaton
Township

Columbia
Township

Avon Lake/LORCO
Phase I
FPA
Jurisdiction Boundary

Current Facility Planning Area (FPA) Boundary
Gravity Sewer Line
Parcels

Parcel 1200099000009

0

150

300

600
Feet

DATA SOURCES:

4-3

NOACA
LORCO
Lorain County

 DRAFT

¯

AT TA CH M EN T B: P R O P O S E D FA CI L I T Y PL AN NI NG A R EA ( F PA )
BO UN DA RY F O R PA R CE L 1 2 0 0 0 9 9 0 0 0 0 0 9 I N C O L U M BI A
TO WN S HI P, L O R A I N C O U NT Y.

5/1/2019

Lorain County FPA Boundaries
Avon Lake

French Creek
Vermilion

Amherst
Elyria

Lorain

Avon Lake/LORCO Phase I

Oberlin

Grafton

Lorain Co.

LaGrange

Lorain County and LORCO

Lorain Co.

Wellington

Lorain Co.

Proposed Changes
NOACA makes no representations or warranties
with respect to the accuracy and/or completeness of the map.

Lorain
County
FPA
Eaton
Township

Columbia
Township

Avon Lake/LORCO
Phase I
FPA

Jurisdiction Boundary

Proposed Facility Planning Area (FPA) Boundary
Gravity Sewer Line
Parcels

Parcel 1200099000009

0

150

300

600
Feet

DATA SOURCES:

4-4

NOACA
LORCO
Lorain County

 Avon Lake

A
Regional Water

Serving the region,
protecting our resource.

April 11, 2019

Ms. Grace Gallucci
Executive Director
NOACA

1299 Superior Avenue
Cleveland, OH 44114

Sent via email
Re: LORCO FPA Boundary Change Request - Hawke Road

Dear Ms. Gallucci:

Avon Lake Regional Water submits to you this letter of support for LORCO's FPA boundary
change request regarding parcel 12-00?099-000?009, (10981 Hawke Road) located in Lorain
County's FPA in Columbia Township on the east side of Hawke Road. This request aligns with
the four?party agreement between LORCO, Lorain County, Columbia Township, and Avon Lake
Regional Water.

If you have any questions regarding our position, please feel free to contact me. Thank you for
your time.

Sincerel

   

V- 

Todd A. Danielson, P.E., BCEE
Chief Utilities Executive

?9
201 Miller Road Phone: (440) 933?6226 avonlakewatemrg moggssaiggne,
Avon Lake, Oth 44012 Fax: (440) 933?8842 Ii /avon akewater recycled paper.
PLEASE RECYCLE

 

k"eAI$,rt
COMMISSIONERS

226 Middle Avenue
Elyrla, OH 44035

office:440-329-5111
F

a* 440-323-3351
r r !1ill .rrl lr, rl 11,!1:

'ri!:!1-

,

Matt Lundy Lori Kokoski Sharon Sweda
Countt, Adnliolstlator
James R. Cordes

Cldk oI B{Ed oiCod0issnne6

Annnxl

Cli?des

April 19,2019

tonad Oincet

llcrq Bridw Snpcrlnrddiflr

Ms. Grace Gallucci
Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency (NOACA)
1299 Superior Avenue,
Cleveland, OH 441L4
Re: PPN 1200099000009 Facilities Planning Area (FPA) Modification

Clrildrcn & fAhily Council

Dear Ms. Gallucci,
Comn@iq Del,elolme0t Dnector

Eh.rg.o.y llinlscme.t &

Facilities Ma.agcment

Fbmelaod

Dne.br

Huo^n Rcsourccs Depandcnt

April

1, 2019, I received a request from Mr. Gene Toy with LORCO requesfing a
letter of support for the modification of the existing Facilities Planning Area (FPA) for
the referenced parcel. The parcel is currently located within the Lorain County FPA
boundary and the modification would place the parcel into LORCO's FPA with Lorain
County serving as the Satellite Management Agency.

On

In order to accommodate the development ofthe above listed parcel, the Lorain County
Commissioners are providing this letter of support to the request made by Mr. Gene Toy
to modit/ the Facilities Planning Area to include the parcel in the LORCO FPA.
Should you have any questions or need additional information, please feel free to contact
me directly at 440-329-57 60.

L,rah

Coufu y CrnnelDruS

Inrxr. (l)un$

Tib

nr/-*

Tr2nsn

ofil.e olSu$.ihrLriliq Cooftlinrtol

R. Cordes
Lorain County Administrator

Re.ords Cenrer Superisor

Cc:

Lorain County Commissioners
Ken Camey, P.E., P.S., Lorain County Sanitary Engineer
Gene Toy, Executive Director, LORCO

Soild \vmi€ Man.gemeni

140,984 5282
\\,odrtorce De!.klll fl enr Dnccbr
4-11!23+1834

4-6

     



EST. 1807

      

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Mark Cunningham
Dick Heidecker
Mike Musto

FISCAL OFFICER
Jackie Ramsey

ADMINISTRATIVE
ASSISTANT
Rita Plate

FIRE CHIEF
Raymond Anthony

ZONING INSPECTOR
Robert Eichenberg

SERVICE DIRECTOR
Robert Flundie

 

COLUMBIA TOWNSHIP

25496 Royalton Road - RC). Box 819 Coiumbia Station, Ohio 44028
440.236.8802 Fax 440.236.8801

April 24, 2019

Ms. Grace Gallucci

Executive Director

Northeast Ohio Areawide Coordinating Agency (NOACA)
1299 Superior Avenue

Cleveland, Ohio 44114

Re: LORCO FPA BOUNDARY CHANGE REQUEST HAWKE ROAD
PERMANENT PARCEL 1200099000009

Dear Ms. Gallucci:

The Columbia Township Board of Trustees support the request of the
property owner Ken Limpert to change the Facility Planning Area (FPA) for
permanent parcel 1200099000009 from Lorain County?s FPA to FPA.
The property is located on the east side of Hawke Road in Columbia
Township. We support this modification based on the Memorandum of
Understanding between Lorain County, LORCO and Columbia Township for
Hawke Road.

Please feel free to contact Trustee Dick Heidecker at 440-552-3511 if you
have any questions or need additional information.

Yours truly,

COLUMBIA TOWNSHIP
BOARD OF TRUSTEES

m9.

Mark C. Cunningham

0.064

Dick Heidecker

WM 7/445

Michael G. Musto

Facility Planning Area (FPA) Modification Request
Form
Applicant:
Lorain County Rural Wastewater District (LORCO)
FPA Amendment Type:
The applicant requests a change in the FPA boundary between the Avon Lake/LORCO
Phase I FPA and the Lorain County FPA.
Location of Transfer Area:
The transfer area is in Columbia Township, Lorain County
Transferring From:
Lorain County FPA
Transferring To:
Avon Lake/LORCO Phase I FPA
Total Acres:
1.0 acre
Total Parcels:
One (1) parcel (PPN 1200099000009)
Prescriptions Change Summary:
No prescription changes proposed
List of Affected Parties:
Designated Management Agencies (DMAs) – Lorain County and City of Avon Lake
Satellite DMAs – LORCO
Others – Columbia Township

6/14/2019

4-8

 208 Plan Consistency Review
Facility Planning Area Review - Applicant Needs to Solicit Support from Affected Parties
 Applicant is the Designated Management Agency for all of the affected area.


Applicant is not the Designated Management Agency for all or part of the
affected area
 Applicant has secured the approval of the entity or entities that are.
 Applicant has not secured the approval of the entity or entities that are

Service Extension/Community Plan Review – Amendment Should be Consistent with the
Prescriptions for Wastewater Treatment 1
 Applicant does not propose the extension of any sewer service.
 The proposed project is limited to sewer system rehabilitation work.
 The proposed project is limited to a plant expansion or modification to
better handle wet weather flow volumes




Applicant does propose the extension of sewer service to an area lying entirely
within the established facility planning area of the project sponsor.
 The proposed extension is consistent with the current Prescriptions for
Wastewater Treatment for the affected area.
 The proposed extension is not consistent with the current Prescriptions
for Wastewater Treatment for the affected area.
 The applicant proposes new Prescriptions for Wastewater Treatment for
the affected area.
Another entity proposes the extension of sewer service to an area lying entirely
within the established facility planning area(s).
 The proposed extension is consistent with the current Prescriptions for
Wastewater Treatment for the affected area.
 The proposed extension is not consistent with the current Prescriptions
for Wastewater Treatment for the affected area.
 The applicant proposes new Prescriptions for Wastewater Treatment for
the affected area.

Plant Expansion Review (if applicable)
 The application involves a plant capacity expansion that is consistent with extant
population projections included in the Clean Water 2000 Plan as most recently
updated.


The application involves a plant capacity expansion that is not consistent with
extant population projections included in the Clean Water 2000 Plan as most
recently updated.
 The applicant has provided information that has sufficiently resolved any
population project discrepancy.
 The applicant has not provided information that sufficiently resolved the
population projection discrepancy.

1

Prescriptions for Wastewater Treatment are referred to as Community Plans for Wastewater Treatment in the Clean
Water 2000 plan.

6/14/2019

4-9

 Staff Comments:
Hawke Road is on the boundary between Eaton Township and Columbia Township in
Lorain County. It is also on the divide between the Avon Lake/LORCO Phase I (Phase I)
FPA and Lorain County FPA. Eaton Township is a member of LORCO and within the
Phase I FPA. Columbia Township is not a member of LORCO and within the Lorain
County FPA. LORCO has a sanitary sewer line that runs along Hawke Road and
Brokaw Road. Due to the current FPA boundary, only the properties along Hawke Road
in Eaton Township can connect to LORCO’s sewer. All sanitary sewer connections must
be within the FPA of the publicly owned treatment works (POTW) that treat the
wastewater.
In 2016, LORCO, Lorain County, City of Avon Lake and Columbia Township signed a
sanitary sewer service agreement for the Columbia Township parcels along Hawke
Road, which would like to connect LORCO’s sewers. The agreement stipulates that if a
property owner along Hawke Road requests in writing to be connected to LORCO’s
sanitary sewers, the affected jurisdictions would all support the proposed FPA
amendment to transfer that parcel(s) from the Lorain County FPA to the Phase I FPA. In
the agreement, Lorain County would remain as the sewer planning Designated
Management Agency (DMA) for all Columbia Township parcels along Hawke Road
regardless of the FPA.
LORCO received a request from the property owner of permanent parcel number (PPN)
1200099000009 to connect their planned home, currently under construction, to
LORCO’s Hawke Road sewer. The landowners included a Columbia Township building
permit application, a photo of the home at the time of the request, and a letter from
Lorain County Public Health that does not object to the connection of this home to
sanitary sewers (attached). The 1.0-acre parcel on which the home resides is within the
sanitary sewer service agreement area between LORCO and the affected jurisdictions.
The current FPA boundary has the parcel within the Lorain County FPA (Attachment A).
LORCO has requested an FPA modification to transfer this parcel from the Lorain
County FPA to the Phase I FPA (Attachment B). No prescription changes are
requested.
Even with the sanitary sewer service agreement between LORCO, City of Avon, Lorain
County and Columbia Township, NOACA’s FPA modification policy still requires LORCO
still must solicit support from the affected jurisdictions to satisfy the notification
requirements in Policy 4-6 of the Clean Water 2000 Plan (208 Plan). All affected
jurisdictions support the FPA boundary modification request.
Staff Disposition:
The staff recommends approval of the requested FPA boundary modification between
the Phase I FPA and the Lorain County FPA. LORCO has an existing sanitary sewer
along Hawke Road and Brokaw Road with the capacity to accept the flow from the
proposed development. The request also satisfies the provisions in the sanitary sewer
service agreement between the affected jurisdictions to provided sewers, upon request,
to the Columbia Township property owners along Hawke Road. Lastly, the request is
supported by all the affected jurisdictions and Lorain County Public Health.

6/14/2019

4 - 10

 Water Quality Subcommittee Disposition:
Action Item for June 14, 2019
Planning and Programming Committee Disposition:
Executive Committee Disposition:
Board of Directors Disposition:

6/14/2019

4 - 11

 Agenda Item No. 7

ITEMS

 

NORTHEAST OHIO AREAWIDE COORDINATING AGENCY
MEMORANDUM
TO:

NOACA Water Quality Subcommittee

FROM:

Grace Gallucci, Executive Director

DATE:

June 14, 2019

RE:

Quarterly Update: 208 Plan Development Process

ACTION REQUESTED
No action requested. This item is for information and discussion only.
BACKGROUND
NOACA staff presented two draft questionnaires at the March 2019 Water Quality Subcommittee (WQS)
meeting. Staff finalized and distributed the “Questionnaire for Wastewater Decision Makers and
Representatives of Designated Management Agencies, Local Health Districts and Affected
Jurisdictions.” This questionnaire was developed to gather input from the stakeholders and public that
are directly affected by FPA planning issues. The questionnaire opened May 13, 2019, and staff sent
out four (4) emails to the communities and agencies between this starting date and May 31, 2019. In
the first week of June, staff called all communities and agencies that had not yet responded to the
questionnaire to ensure they received the emails and encourage their participation. Prior to the close
of the questionnaire on June 14, 2019, NOACA sent out on last email reminder email to the
nonresponsive communities and entities.
NOACA staff also worked to finalize the “208 Public” Questionnaire.” This questionnaire will be
distributed to the stakeholder agencies to help distribute to their constituents as outlined in the
Distribution Plan presented at the March 2019 WQS meeting. This questionnaire will remain open as
NOACA plans and holds public meetings on the 208 Plan.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no financial impact to NOACA.
CONCLUSION/NEXT STEPS
NOACA Staff will be working with NOACA’s Senior Management Team and regional stakeholders to
plan and hold meetings to present the draft 208 Plan this summer.
GG/pld/ea/8178c

51

 52

NORTHEAST OHIO AREAWIDE COORDINATING AGENCY
MEMORANDUM
TO:

NOACA Water Quality Subcommittee

FROM:

Grace Gallucci, Executive Director

DATE:

June 14, 2019

RE:

NOACA’s 208 Plan Current FPA Modification Policies

ACTION REQUESTED
No action is requested at this time. This item is for information and discussion only.
BACKGROUND/INFORMATION
At its January 2019 meeting, NOACA’s Policy Committee adopted focus areas for the new
calendar year. One of those focus areas was to evaluate the potential inclusion of criteria
that would address FPA boundary changes requested for the purpose of new housing or
commercial developments.
The review and approval of wastewater FPA modification requests is a primary 208 Plan
maintenance task. The NOACA Board must approve all FPA modifications to either boundaries
or prescriptions. Since 2009, the NOACA Board has approved 53 modifications to the Region’s
FPA boundaries and prescriptions. Of these modifications, 42 percent have been for new
development.
At its April 2019 meeting, the Policy Committee was briefed on NOACA’s 208 Plan, which
contains policies that govern FPA modifications. At the conclusion of the presentation, the
Policy Committee discussed urban sprawl and development impacts, and whether they should
be a consideration factor. As you know, the current 208 Plan is undergoing a comprehensive
update, including policies relevant to staff review of FPA modification requests. To further inform
the content of the new 208 Plan, two questionnaires were developed to gather stakeholder
input: The wastewater decision makers questionnaire (distributed in May) and the “208 Public”
questionnaire (to be distributed in June). The wastewater decision maker questionnaire includes
the following question about potential consideration of urban sprawl and development impacts in
NOACA review of FPA modification requests:
Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? During NOACA staff
review of proposed Facility Planning Area (FPA) modifications, staff should
examine whether a proposed modification is primarily driven by new development
and whether that new development would further expand the development
footprint (i.e., increase urban sprawl) in Northeast Ohio.
Input from the Water Quality Subcommittee, along with results from the wastewater decision
makers questionnaire, will inform members of the Policy Committee about next steps to consider
an urban sprawl and development impacts policy.

53

 FINANCIAL IMPACT
None
CONCLUSION/NEXT STEPS
Staff will use Water Quality Subcommittee input to further develop 208 Plan FPA modification
policies.
GG/jm/8179c

54

 Agenda Item No. 6

WATERSHED ACTIVITIES UPDATE

 

Agenda Item No. 7

OLD BUSINESS

Agenda Item No. 8

NEW BUSINESS

Agenda Item No. 9

ADJOURNMENT

 

