Regional Enterprise Data Sharing System (REDSS) Advisory Board
Prosecutor Michael C. O’Malley, Chair
Chief Timothy Malley, Vice-Chair
April 5, 2019 Meeting Minutes
VOTING MEMBERS

ASSOCIATION

Michael C. O’Malley

Cuyahoga County Prosecutor

✓

Chief Timothy Malley

Cuyahoga County Police Chiefs Assoc.

✓

Chief Joe Bobak

Cuyahoga County Police Chiefs Assoc.

✓

Brandy Carney

Cuyahoga County Executive Rep.

✓

Capt. Rich Peters

Cuyahoga County Sheriff’s Office-Alternate

✓

Chief Calvin Williams

City of Cleveland, Chief of Police

✓

Dr. Thomas Gilson

Cuyahoga County Medical Examiner

Absent

ATTENDING
Nick DiCicco, Dan Grein

Chagrin Valley Dispatch

Dep. Chief Harold Pretel

City of Cleveland

Brendan Doyle

Cuyahoga County Prosecutors Office

Michael Herb, Don Gerome

Cuyahoga County, CJIS / Sheriff’s Office

Alan Kilgore, John Sheffler

Cuyahoga County, Dept. of IT

I.

Call to Order / Roll Call
Chairman O’Malley called the meeting of April 5, 2019 to order. Roll was called, a quorum was
in attendance.

II.

Approval of Minutes
Motion to approve the meeting minutes of February 22, 2019; Chief Malley moved; seconded
by Chief Bobak; all in favor, minutes approved.

III.

Public Comment None.

Page 1 of 2

 IV.

Old Business
Mike Herb reviewed information and reports requested from last meeting (sent by email) to
include revenue/expenditures, $5.00 fee summary; current contracts and professional services
for data warehouse buildout and service; open LRP repair work order from CVD; mobile
camera trailer deployment for 2018. Chief Calvin Williams requested breakdown of $5.00 fees
by municipality. Discussion regarding private entity requests for the mobile cameras. Chairman
O’Malley requested future camera requests go to Brendan Doyle in the Prosecutor’s Office.
Nick DiCiccio and Dan Grein from Chagrin Valley Dispatch (CVD) reviewed the open work
order spreadsheet for the license plate readers (LPR); discussing downtime, system interruptions
and capabilities. Noted was the fact when cameras are not operational it is not immediately
known, causing delays with service from the vendor. Discussion on contract continuation and
vendor’s willingness to correct issues and provide a notification system. County Prosecutor’s
office to draft a letter to vendor.

V.

New Business
Mike Herb gave an updated on the Protection Order Registry. Meetings upcoming with Noris
and various stakeholders to discuss best practices and process moving forward. Questions were
asked by the board and discussion on LEADS compliance, process for entering protection
orders.
Chairman O’Malley asked questions and expressed concerns with the CVD contract regarding
costs, design, interfacing, sub-contracting and staffing to which CVD staff responded.

VI.
VII.

Announcements/Other Business – None.
Adjournment - With no further business the meeting was adjourned.

*Next meeting: TBD

Page 2 of 2

 