SUMMIT COUNTY CHILDREN SERVICES
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SEPTEMBER 24, 2019 MEETING MINUTES

 

Board Members Board Members Executive Team
Anna Arvay, Chair Montrella Jackson Julie Barnes
Anne Connell-Freund, Vice-Chair Beth Kuckuck Amy Davidson
GinaKaye Maddox, Secretary Keith Malick Darin Kearns
4 Omar Banks 4 Katie Stoynoff Valarie Nash
Nancy Holland Katerina Papas

Staff Present: Bob King, Kristin Lopez, Sushila Moore, Mary Serapiglia, Michelle Tersigni, Beth
Lowe - Recording Secretary

Others Present: Tom Lavery

Call to Order and Roll Call
Ms. Connell-Freund, Vice Chair, called the meeting to order at 5:30 pm. and a roll call was taken.

Approval of Meeting Minutes
Ms. Connell-Freund requested a motion to approve the minutes of August 27, 2019. Mr. Banks
moved to approve the minutes; seconded by Ms. Jackson. The motion carried.

 

Public Comment
Mr. Lavery addressed the Board regarding agency policies and procedures.

Committee Reports

Citizen's Advisory Committee

Ms. Kuckuck, Committee Chair, reported that the committee met on September 18 and heard a
presentation on the SCCS Custody Analysis Report from Ms. Barnes. They also received an
overview of the projected 2020 Budget from Mr. Kearns and a Social Services update from Ms.
Davidson.

Rules Committee

Mr. Malick, Committee Chair, reported that the Rules Committee met today and conducted an
annual review of the Code of Regulations and the Code of Conduct and made recommendations
for change. All recommendations for change will be distributed to the full Board in the October
board packet and voted on at the November 26 Board meeting.

Resources Committee

Ms. Connell?Freund, Committee Chair, reported that the committee met today and approved the
minutes from August 27, 2019. As part of the Resources Committee report, Mr. Kearns provided a
summary of the financial statement report ending August 31, 2019 to the full Board.

(09?2019?24) Minutes Board Meeting 1

Resolution 09-2019-24/ 

Authorization to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Summit County Job and
Family Services for the transfer of Title XX/Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TAN F)
funds to SCCS in an amount not to exceed $1,200,000 to be used for non-allocated SCCS costs and
to authorize the SCCS Executive Director to execute any documents necessary to effectuate the
transfer. Ms. Connell-Freund made a motion to approve; seconded by Mrs. Stoynoff. The motion
carried. Resolution approved.

Resolution 

Authorization to enter into an amended Agreement with the Human Services Research Institute
(HSRI) to provide additional research data during the term of July 1, 2019 to June 30, 2020 for an
additional amount not to exceed $24,000 in addition to the agreed upon compensation of $24,000
in the initial Agreement for a total compensation amount not to exceed $48,000. Ms. Connell-
Freund made a motion to approve; seconded by Mr. Banks. The motion carried. Resolution
approved.

Resolution 

Authorization to support and endorse the County of Summit Alcohol, Drug Addiction, and Mental
Health Services Board (ADM) renewal levy and authorization for the Citizen's Committee and ADM
to use the name of Summit County Children Services for advertisements and general publicity
purposes related to the levy campaign. Ms. Connell-Freund made a motion to approve; seconded
by Ms. Jackson. Ms. Kuckuck and Ms. Connell?Freund abstained. The motion carried. Resolution
approved.

Nominating Committee Appointment

Ms. Connell-Freund announced that the current term of elected officers of the Board will expire on
December 31, 2019. To assist with the election process, the Board Chair will appoint a Nominating
Committee made up of not less than three Board members who do not wish to be nominated for
office. Ms. Jackson volunteered to serve on the Nominating Committee.

At the October Board meeting, all members ofthe Board shall be invited to submit nominations or
self-nominations for Chair, Vice?Chair and Secretary to the Nominating Committee and voting will
take place at the November Board meeting.

Other Business
Ms. Barnes introduced, Kristin Lopez, Intake Screenings and Support Supervisor, who is observing
today's meeting as a participant of the SCCS Leadership Coaching program.

Executive Director's Report

Ms. Barnes reported the following:

0 Currently, there are 809 children in the custody of SCCS, which is almost 70 less than four
months ago. As a follow-up to the Custody Analysis Report, SCCS is participating in a mapping
session with Summit County Juvenile Court and the Ohio Supreme Court to identify delays that
impact permanency for children. SCCS is also in the process of scheduling a meeting with the
Akron Police Department to discuss the Juvenile Rule 6 process.

(09?2019-24) Minutes Board Meeting 2

 A total of 776 calls of concern were received through the hotline in August, which is 100 less
calls compared to August 2018. The number of staff on full rotation has remained consistent
over the past three or four months and with a lower number of screened-in reports, caseloads
have been more manageable. Appreciation was expressed towards Intake Director Sushila
Moore for her leadership in improving the timeliness of Intakes.

0 One social work assistant (SWA) position was added to Protective Services and one SWA was
added to the Family Interaction Center (FIC) to better support the caseworkers.

0 There are 39 less children in the permanent custody of SCCS than six months ago due to
children finding permanency through adoption. A total of 16 adoptions finalized in August.

0 Currently, SCCS has 164 licensed foster/adoptive homes and five adopt-only homes. A total of
25 new homes studies are pending.

In August, FIC staff were separated into two units for the purpose of providing more
opportunities for least restrictive visits such as in a caregiver home or out in the community.

0 The Sobriety, Treatment and Reducing Trauma (START) grant implementation was delayed
due to the delay in hiring a family peer mentor. We expect to start accepting referrals
in October.

0 Staff have completed half of the Resilience Alliance (RA) sessions through the Quality
Improvement Center on Workforce Development grant.

a The Succeed Support Group meetings will be moved from a community location to SCCS in
order to eliminate barriers with transportation.

0 To assist with the agency?s turnover rate, the Human Resources (HR) staff along with the
Executive Team (ET) are working on a Stay Interview Tool to be used for new staff throughout
their first two years of employment.

0 The SCCS Leadership Academy Class II started on September 17 and will run through August
2020.

The Child and Family Leadership Exchange (CFLE) introduced Class XXV at its annual
Community Leaders Reception.

The Together for Safe Kids Levy Auction Fundraiser was held on September 19 and was well?
attended and successful. Bill and Becky Considine were honored for their advocacy and
leadership and Succeed facilitator Veronica McNair shared her personal story. The SCCS Board
of Trustees were thanked for their support.

Adiournment
Ms. Connell-Freund requested a motion to adjourn. Mrs. Stoynoff moved; seconded by Ms.

Kuckuck. There being no further business, the meeting adjourned at 5:53 pm.



    

 

   

- .. "i 
InaKaye addox, Secretary Julie Barnes, LSW
Board of Trustees Executive Director

(09-2019?24) Minutes Board Meeting 3

