STATE OF ILLINOIS
COUNTY OF COOK

November 19, 2019

MINUTES FOR THE REGULAR MONTHLY BOARD MEETING
NORTH SHORE MOSQUITO ABATEMENT DISTRICT
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
At the convened monthly meeting for the North Shore Mosquito Abatement District
Board of Trustees held at the District office, 117 Northfield Road, Northfield, Illinois,
Tuesday, November 19, 2019. President Zbesko called the meeting to order at 7:01 pm.
ROLL CALL
Trustee Carol Blustein
Trustee Nelson Howard
Trustee Kathleen Kendrick
Trustee John Zbesko
Trustee William Zimmer

Present
Present
Present
Present
Present

OTHERS IN ATTENDANCE
Executive Director Mark Clifton
Attorney Jayman Avery of Odelson & Sterk
Internal Operations Manager Jennifer Zimmer
I.

MINUTES

Approval of Minutes: Minutes of the October 3, 2019, meeting of the NSMAD were
approved as corrected and distributed to the members of the Board. Trustee Kendrick
moved to approve, Trustee Blustein seconded. All ayes.
II.

REPORT FROM BOARD OFFICERS

President: A local resident and acquaintance of President Zbesko recently informed Mr.
Zbesko that that he had suffered from Lyme disease about five years ago. This person
feels that he contracted the disease in Deerfield, Illinois, which continues to reinforce the
need for the District to continue its development of a tick monitoring program.
President Zbesko also complemented the Executive Director and staff on a job well done
as evidenced by complimentary letters that were received by the District from Evanston
residents.
Vice President: Trustee Howard reported that he will be attending the IMVCA annual
conference at the end of this week.
Secretary: No report.

1

 Trustee: No report.
Treasurer: Trustee Zimmer read financials as well as October bills and payrolls. Total
receipts were $27,865, total disbursements were $150,393 and total assets were
$2,207,393. All totals rounded to the nearest dollar. The finance report was accepted. The
report will be filed for the audit.
III.

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AND LAB REPORT:

Executive Director Clifton gave the Trustees a short demonstration of the District’s new
Fieldseeker GIS program and informed them of the items staff will be working on in the
next few months to implement the program into District operations.
Building renovations are progressing. Earlier in the month asbestos removal took place in
the NSMAD office. Cabinets and epoxy floor installation will occur next month. The new
signage for the District will be taking longer than anticipated due to required permits and
a variance that will be needed. Installation is likely going to occur in early 2020. The
District’s Annual Report is on track to be finished in January, which is earlier than usual.
Finally, the minus 80 Celsius freezer has arrived and has been installed in the lab.
IV. REPORT FROM LEGAL COUNSEL: No report
V. COMMUNICATION MANAGER REPORT: No report
VI. INTERNAL OPERATION MANAGER REPORT:
Internal Operations Manager, Jennifer Zimmer, updated the Board on the financial
operations of the District and information on upcoming activities at the next Board
meeting.
VII.

OLD BUSINESS:

Trustee Kendrick made a motion to confirm approval for signage expenditure with South
Water Signs including permit fees at a cost not to exceed $15,000. Trustee Howard
seconded. All ayes.
President Zbesko moved to go into closed session to discuss Personnel: For the purpose
of discussing Personnel. The appointment, employment, compensation, discipline,
performance, or dismissal of specific employee(s), 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1) at 7:37 pm.
Trustee Blustein seconded. All ayes.
The board returned to the regular meeting at 8:36 pm
IX.

NEW BUSINESS:

2

 The Board was asked to approve the District’s tax levy proposal in order for it to be
published before the public budget hearing. Trustee Kendrick made a motion to approve
the tentative 2020 Tax Levy (Tax Year 2019) estimate in the amount of $1,520,127 and
approval to publish Notice of same. Trustee Blustein seconded. A roll-call vote on the
levy ordinance resulted in the following; Ayes: Trustees Zbesko, Zimmer, Howard,
Kendrick and Blustein. Opposed: none. The motion passes.
Trustee Blustein made a motion to approve medical insurance policy renewal for 2020
with BCBS, Plan P503 PPO, in the amount of $91,702. Trustee Kendrick seconded. All
ayes.
Trustee Kendrick made a motion to approve dental and vision policy renewal for 2020
with Ameritas in the amount of $8,054. There is no increase from 2019. Trustee Blustein
seconded. All ayes.
Trustee Kendrick made a motion to approve liability and workers compensation
insurance policy renewal for 2020 with ICRMT in the amount of $53,929. Trustee
Blustein seconded. All ayes.
Announcements:
December 5, 2019, at 7:00 P.M. and NSMAD headquarters, 117 Northfield Road,
Northfield, IL, were fixed as the time and place of the next regular and budget meeting.
Trustee Zbesko asked for a motion to adjourn. Trustee Howard seconded. All ayes.
Adjournment: The November 19th meeting was adjourned at 8:43 pm.
ATTESTED
President, John Zbesko

SUBMITTED
Secretary, Kitty Kendrick

3

 