STAFF REPORT: 12-11-2019 MEETING
APPLICATION NUMBER: 19-6538
ADDRESS: 3960 THIRD
HISTORIC DISTRICT: WILLIS-SELDEN
APPLICANT: BOB GEORGE
DATE OF COMPLETE APPLICATION: 10/30/2019
DATE OF STAFF SITE VISIT: 10/29/2019

PREPARED BY: A. DYE

SCOPE: ADD STOREFRONT, DOORS AND WINDOWS
EXISTING CONDITIONS
The building at 3960 Third Street is a one-story garage constructed in 1927. The Sanborn map, dated 1950,
states the building’s original use was a garage (with a 50-car capacity), was constructed of hollow concrete
or cement block, and faced with brick. Two window openings are indicated on the rear elevation (in the
same location as the bricked-in openings), however no markings for windows are shown for the front
elevation, nor markings for doors on the front or rear elevations. However, the design of the front elevation
is typical of its era so staff believes the (now bricked-in) storefronts and centrally located rolled door are
original in placement but not material. Furthermore, the single door installed off-center within the left
storefront opening is likely a later alteration. The name Third Avenue Garage is inscribed within the
limestone and is painted a contrasting color to provide a sharp contrast on the façade.
The only change to the front elevation since the time of district designation (2011) is its uniform painting
(to a color similar to B:8 Grayish Brown), which occurred between October 2011 and July 2013. The
owner did not obtain a Certificate of Appropriateness for the painting project.

HDC Staff visit, 10/29/19

Google maps, October 2011

 PROPOSAL
With the current proposal, the applicant is seeking the Commission’s approval for the following work
items:
West/Front Elevation
• The applicant proposes to repaint the elevation a warm gray (Benjamin Moore, Chelsea Gray, HC168). The color is close to B:10 - Grayish Green.
• The brick in the two openings will be removed and black aluminum storefronts, with insulated
glass, will be installed. New limestone panels and limestone sills will be installed below the
storefronts (replacing the existing brick).
• The right-side opening will have two, 2-panel fold-in units, creating four equal glass areas. Four
fixed windows will be installed above the doors, with a continuous horizontal mullion separating
the openings.
• The left-side opening will also be divided into four units. The right half will feature a 2-panel, foldin unit with fixed glass above. The left half will feature 3’-0” x 8’-0” black aluminum door (glass
panel) and a fixed side window, with two fixed glass windows above. The floor plan shows the
door/side window to be recessed approximately seven feet from the front elevation.
East/Rear Elevation
• The rear elevation will include a 3’-0” x 7’-0” black aluminum door (with glass panel), an
aluminum insulated glass roll-up door, and glass block fill an existing window opening that was
previously bricked-in. Damaged brick and clay coping will be replaced with new materials to
match existing.
Side Elevations (North/South)
• The side elevations, will be inspected and approximately 40% of the existing brick will be replaced
with new brick (same color and texture).
Roof and All Elevations
Existing torch down roof to be removed; a new energy shield roof to be installed (color change from black
to beige).
Clerestory, which from the aerial looks to be currently covered, will receive three storefront windows on
each side. Hardie Panels to be installed on remaining walls.
Fascia to be replaced; brown aluminum gutters and white pvc downspouts (which return into the building)
will be reconnected.
All of the glass within the doors and storefronts will be clear.
STAFF OBSERVATIONS AND RESEARCH
• The brick storefront facing 3rd Avenue has been painted since at least August 2007, per Google
street view. However the brick within the storefront openings was not painted until the 2011-2013
painting mentioned earlier. The storefronts and doors specified for the front elevation will fit within
the existing openings. While the brick is largely infill from a later time, the brick below the existing
sills may be original. The proposed storefront design is minimal in design and sympathetic to a
general storefront typology and is compatible with the building’s massing, scale and remaining
architectural features. The name, Third Avenue Garage, is likely original to the building (due to it
being engraved in the limestone) and should be retained.
• As the rear elevation faces an alley and has suffered from deferred maintenance and multiple
enclosures, the storefront door, glass garage door and glass block will not replace any historic
materials. As this building has always served as a garage, glass block is a sympathetic material to
use. However, the application does not state the façade will be painted, so the mismatched colors

 •

•
•

and peeling paint are expected to remain.
The side elevations, in some ways, have suffered the most. Deferred maintenance, harsh repairs to
the masonry and missing brick have created uneven surfaces. It is not clear the 40% brick
replacement will remove the patchwork repairs (of concrete?). These two walls are not to be
painted.
Installation of windows and siding to the clerestory will be an improvement.
No exterior lighting is planned at this time.

ISSUES
 Clarity over all four wall surfaces is needed.
Front/West Elevation
o The work specification states “paint top portion of west elevation”, however the elevation
drawing states “all existing brick to be re-painted (this façade only).
o The plans contradict where the new entry door will be placed. The floor plan and elevation
show a recessed entry, however the plumbing/mechanical/electrical plans show the door flush
with the storefront opening and located to the far left.
o Assuming the floor plan is the accurate version, the relocation of the door creates a recessed
alcove.
o The brick below the sills offer a quiet, unified appearance to the front elevation and may be an
original building component. The applicant has not given a reason for the brick’s removal.
Side and Rear Elevations
o The existing patch jobs and partial replacement of the brick will potentially cause further
deterioration if not addressed. Mortar appropriate for historic brick is much softer than mortar
purchased off the shelf (similarly, the old bricks are much softer than new bricks). Mixing in
almost half of a wall of new brick/mortar may exacerbate the deterioration of the original brick
(as water will run through, and then freeze within, the softest materials on the walls). Speaking
with an experienced mason is suggested.
o The pattern of the glass block hasn’t been specified.
Roof
o The color will change from a standard black rolled roofing, to a beige spray-on roof.
o Confirmation is needed that the new windows will match the specifications for the storefront
windows planned on the front elevation.
o Specifications for the Hardie panels were not submitted.
RECOMMENDATION
It is staff’s opinion the work as proposed will result in the destruction of historic materials along with
altering features and spaces that characterize the property. With the below conditions, staff recommends
the Commission issue a Certificate of Appropriateness for the project as it will meet the Secretary of the
Interior Standards for Rehabilitation Standards, especially:
#2) The historic character of a property shall be retained and preserved. The removal of historic materials
or alteration of features and spaces that characterize a property shall be avoided, and
#9) New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction shall not destroy historic materials
that characterize the property. The new work shall be differentiated from the old and shall be compatible
with the massing, size, scale, and architectural features to protect the historic integrity of the property and
its environment.

 The conditions staff recommends are:
• The existing condition and long-term care of the masonry side walls be investigated further with a
detailed repair plan per the recommendations of a licensed mason.
• New brick shall match the existing brick in color, dimension, texture and pattern. A historic mortar
mix shall be used, even if new brick (rather than reclaimed historic brick) is used. Please refer to
the National Park Service Technical Preservation Services Preservation Brief “Repointing Mortar
Joints in Historic Masonry Buildings”.
• The left-side storefront design will match the floor plan indicated on the
mechanical/electrical/plumbing plans, i.e., the door and window unit will be flush with the
storefront folding units.
• The brick below the sills will remain. Additionally, the brick removed from the area where the new
door will be constructed will be saved and reused, as is possible, to fill in the area below the sill
that will be enclosed upon the removal of the existing door.
• A catalog cut confirming the style of glass block will be submitted.
• A cut sheet confirming the Hardie Panels (design, finish and color) will be submitted.
• Specifications for the clerestory storefront windows will be submitted.
• The silicone applied to the Energy Shield spray foam roof will be gray (S2022).
• The above items will be submitted for staff review. Should staff determine that such changes are
not consistent with the Commission’s intent, such changes shall be deemed a new application for
formal Commission review at the next available meeting.

 Effective 10/11/2011
SUMMARY
This ordinance amends Chapter 25, Article II, of the 1984 Detroit City Code by adding
Section 25-2-181 to establish the Willis-Selden Local Historic District, and to define the elements
of design for the district.
IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF DETROIT THAT:
Section 1. Chapter 25, Article II, of the 1984 Detroit City Code is amended by adding
Section 25-2-181 to read as follows:
Sec. 25-2-181. Willis-Selden Local Historic District.
(A) A historic district to be known as the Willis-Selden Local Historic District is
established in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(B) This historic district designation is certified as being consistent with the Detroit Master
Plan.
(D) The defined elements of design, as provided for in Section 25-2-2 of this code, are as
follows:
(1) Height. Single-family or small multi-unit residential structures range in height from one and
one-half (1½) to two and one-half (2½) stories in height. Apartment buildings typically range
in height from two (2) stories to four (4) stories, often on high basements; a majority of these
buildings are three (3) stories in height with high basements. The apartment building at 70
West Alexandrine Avenue is eight stories in height. Commercial and other building types
typically range from one (1) to two (2) stories in height. The building at 444 West Willis
Avenue, commonly known as the Willys-Overland Building, is historically four (4) stories in
height and features a modern, set back, fifth (5th) story addition. The building at 3933
Woodward Avenue, commonly known as the Garden Theater, is three (3) stories in height.
The building at 3901 Cass Avenue, commonly known as Cass Avenue Methodist Church,
features a sanctuary that is a tall, single story in height, a tower that is approximately one and
one-half (1½) times as tall as the sanctuary, and a two (2) story addition.
(2) Proportion of Buildings’ Front Façades. Front façades of single-family or small multi-unit
residential structures are typically as tall as wide or slightly taller than wide. Front façades of
apartment buildings are commonly as tall as wide or slightly taller than wide, with the
exception of broader buildings at 3761 Second Avenue, commonly known as the Coronado
Apartments, 711 West Alexandrine Avenue, 495-497 West Willis Avenue, and 477 West
Alexandrine Avenue, which are significantly wider than tall. Front façades of single-story
commercial buildings are significantly wider than tall, while multi-story commercial

 (3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)

buildings and other non-residential buildings tend to be slightly wider than tall. Buildings
often occupy most or all of deep lots, resulting in side elevations of buildings that are often
substantially wider than tall.
Proportion of Openings Within the Façades. Openings typically amount to between twenty
percent (20%) and thirty-five percent (35%) of the front façade. Commercial buildings often
feature expansive storefront windows on their first (1st) floors, though in many cases these
windows have been covered with boards or closed in with brick or concrete block. Sash
windows, taller than wide, predominate on all building types. On apartment buildings, sash
windows are sometimes arranged in groupings which, together, are square or wider than tall.
A significant minority of buildings feature arched, mullioned, semicircular, casement, or
dormer windows appropriate to their respective architectural styles. Upper sashes and
transoms are occasionally subdivided into smaller panes. Casement windows are usually
subdivided into smaller panes. Door openings are typically slightly larger in scale than
window openings. Primary entrance openings are usually centered on the façades of
commercial and apartment buildings, but usually off-center on the façades of smaller
residential buildings.
Rhythm of Solids to Voids in Front Façades. Despite a variety of building types, the overall
impression is one of regular, repetitive openings arranged horizontally within façades. A
repetitive flow of storefront openings, where they exist, creates a rhythm along commercial
frontage. Smaller residential buildings as well as the building at 3901 Cass Avenue,
commonly known as Cass Avenue Methodist Church, display more varied, often
asymmetrical, arrangements of openings, but the overall impression is still one of regular,
repetitive openings.
Rhythm of Spacing of Buildings on Streets. Rhythm of spacing on streets is generally
determined by setbacks from side lot lines. The overall character of the district is one of
densely clustered, yet visually distinct, structures separated by narrow setbacks. Commercial
buildings frequently abut adjacent buildings, typically featuring no setbacks from side lot
lines, especially on Woodward Avenue where evenly spaced storefronts create a regular
spacing of buildings. There is a general regularity in the widths of subdivision lots from one
block to another, contributing to a regular rhythm of spacing of buildings on streets.
Rhythm of Entrances and/or Porch Projections. Porches on smaller residential buildings
typically project while those on other types of buildings usually do not. On residential
buildings only, entrances are often located several steps above grade to accommodate high
basements. Doorways on smaller residential buildings are often set beneath gable-roofed or
arched openings, while doorways on other buildings are typically centered on their façades.
A regular rhythm of entrances is created by a row of similar commercial buildings along
Woodward Avenue.
Relationship of Materials. A majority of buildings are faced with brick and feature stone or
cast stone trim. Single-family residential buildings are generally faced with brick and feature
wooden brackets, bay windows, vergeboards, timbering, porch supports, dentils, entablature,
or other classically inspired elements, and other details depending on style. A small number
of single-family residential buildings feature wood clapboard siding. Stone or stone facing
defines the foundations of buildings at 643-647 and 748 West Alexandrine Avenue, 481
Brainard Avenue, 3957 and 4107 Cass Avenue, and 500 West Willis Avenue, the lower
levels of buildings at 4120 Cass Avenue, 3761 Second Avenue, 495-497 West Willis
Avenue, and the entire primary façade of buildings at 624 and 627 West Alexandrine

 Avenue and 3977 Cass Avenue. The buildings at 3901 Cass Avenue, commonly known as
Cass Avenue Methodist Church, 3900 and 3977 Second Avenue, and 4100 Third Avenue are
composed primarily of stone. Sash windows are historically wood but have, in many cases,
been replaced with windows of more modern materials. Stone is used for window sills on a
majority of buildings within the district. While roofs within the district are generally flat and
not visible, pitched roofs typically feature visible slate or asphalt shingles. Buildings at 686
Selden and 711 West Alexandrine Avenue feature clay tile roofs. The building at 3901 Cass
Avenue, commonly known as Cass Avenue Methodist Church, features a copper roof on its
tower.
(8) Relationship of Textures. On a majority of buildings within the district, the major textural
effect is that of brick with mortar joints juxtaposed with cast stone or limestone trim.
Patterned brickwork is used to create subtle detail on commercial and apartment buildings,
such as spandrels and rectangular panels, and more pronounced textural interest where it
exists on the upper stories of buildings, such as at 461 West Alexandrine Avenue, and in an
arcaded cornice on the building at 711 West Alexandrine Avenue. Where they exist, detailed
wooden vergeboards, gables, brackets, and dormers create considerable textural interest on
all single-family residential buildings in the district. Rough-cut stone with thick mortar joints
creates considerable textural interest on buildings where it exists, while other buildings
feature smooth stone with thin mortar joints. In general, asphalt shingle roofs do not
contribute to textural interest.
(9) Relationship of Colors. Natural brick colors in shades of brown, red, and buff predominate
on wall surfaces, while natural stone colors in shades of gray, red, and brown also exist.
Although most roofs are flat and therefore not visible, sloped roofs typically feature gray
asphalt, while some feature red or green clay tile or slate in contrasting colors of gray, red, or
green. Wooden architectural details are frequently painted in bold colors, appropriate to the
architectural style of the buildings, which contract markedly with brick facing. Brick
apartment buildings are generally unpainted, with gray stone trim contrasting with brown or
buff brickwork. Brick on commercial buildings is frequently painted in shades of yellow or
orange. The original colors of any building, as determined by professional analysis, are
always acceptable for that building and may provide guidance for similar buildings.
(10) Relationship of Architectural Details. Buildings in the district exemplify a broad range of
architectural styles, and their architectural details relate to their style. Pre-1880 residential
buildings, as well as commercial buildings on Woodward Avenue, are Italianate in style.
Single-family residential buildings are often Queen Anne or Stick/Eastlake in style.
Romanesque Revival structures include the building at 3977 Second Avenue, commonly
known as the Campbell-Symington House, and the building at 3901 Cass Avenue,
commonly known as the Cass Avenue Methodist Church. Larger apartment buildings
include the Spanish Medieval building at 624 West Alexandrine Avenue, commonly known
as the El Moore Flats, and several buildings in Beaux Arts and Colonial Revival styles. Also
represented are the Jacobethan Revival, Craftsman, Spanish Colonial, Late Gothic, and NeoGeorgian styles. Buildings range from vernacular to high style in appearance, with the level
of architectural detail varying greatly from one building to the next.
(11) Relationship of Roof Shapes. Most apartment buildings and all nonresidential buildings have
flat roofs that cannot be seen from the ground, with the exception of the building at 3901
Cass Avenue, commonly known as Cass Avenue Methodist Church, with prominent cross
gables defining its nave and transept and a hip roof defining a two-story addition. Single-

 family residential buildings feature multiple roof shapes, with steep, intersecting gables,
dormers, towers, and tall chimneys creating dramatic silhouettes. Flat-roofed apartment
buildings often feature stepped or triangular parapet walls, occasionally with crenellation or
balustrades, which add interest to the building’s roofline.
(12) Walls of Continuity. Setbacks of residential buildings tend to vary slightly from one building
to the next, but generally create a wall of continuity on all streets in the district, except where
building demolition has created vacant lots. The continuous façades of commercial
buildings, where they exist in rows, create significant walls of continuity in the district.
Fencing, often modern steel units that resemble historic cast or wrought iron fencing, exists
at the front lot line of many properties and suggests an additional wall of continuity. Mature
trees and public lighting fixtures generally do not contribute to a wall of continuity due to
their irregular placement throughout the district.
(13) Relationship of Significant Landscape Features and Surface Treatments. The overall
impression is that east-west streetscapes are abundantly planted whereas north-south
streetscapes are not. Typical treatment of individual residential properties is a shallow, flat
front lawn in grass turf, subdivided by a straight concrete walk leading to the front entrance.
Alleys provide access to the rear of a majority of lots in the district; a small number of these
lots contain garages in the rear accessed via the alley. Trees, hedges, and other landscaping
features are irregularly spaced. Trees in the front yards of buildings vary in size, age, and
species. Most commercial buildings, and a smaller number of apartment buildings, are built
up to the front lot line. Public sidewalks run alongside all streets in the district. Curbs, while
historically stone, have been replaced with concrete in a majority of the district. Public
lighting is generally of the modern, steel, pole-mounted variety, though wrought iron-style
light fixtures exist on Woodward Avenue.
(14) Relationship of Open Space to Structures. Front and side yards range from shallow to
nonexistent, while most smaller residential buildings feature rear yards. Other than public
rights-of-way, large areas of open space exist only where they have been created by building
demolition; sometimes these spaces serve as parking lots or are maintained as open lawns.
(15) Scale of Façades and Façade Elements. Single-family residential buildings are moderate to
large in scale relative to typical buildings from the period in which they were constructed.
Apartment buildings range from small to large in scale, with a small number of buildings,
such as the building at 70 West Alexandrine and the building at 3751-73 Second Avenue,
commonly known as the Coronado Apartments, being significantly larger in scale than the
others. The building at 444 West Willis Avenue, commonly known as the Willys-Overland
building, is also large in scale. Elements within the façades are generally small to medium in
scale.
(16) Directional Expression of Front Elevations. Façades of single-family residential structures
are generally vertical in directional expression due to tall window and door openings and
peaked rooflines. Apartment buildings generally range from neutral to slightly vertical in
directional expression, though a smaller number are horizontal in directional expression.
Commercial buildings, especially single-story ones, are generally horizontal in directional
expression due to broad storefront windows and, where they exist, horizontal cornices.
(17) Rhythm of Building Setbacks. A degree of irregularity is introduced by varying setbacks of
front façades; smaller residential buildings tend to be set several feet back from the public
sidewalk, while larger apartment buildings and other buildings often occupy their entire
lots. While setbacks may vary slightly from one building to the next the overall impression

 is one of a consistent rhythm of building setbacks. Where building demolition has occurred,
the original rhythmic progression of buildings has been disrupted.
(18) Relationship of Lot Coverages. Lot coverages within the district are generally high, but vary
based on building type. Single-family residential buildings and smaller apartment buildings
often occupy between twenty percent (20%) and forty percent (40%) of their lots, with
much of the remaining space being devoted to rear yards. Other building types range from
fifty percent (50%) to one hundred percent (100%) lot coverage. Large buildings may have
light courts or central courtyard spaces. Commercial buildings, in particular, often occupy a
large percentage of their lots.
(19) Degree of Complexity Within the Façades. The façades within the district range from simple
to complex, depending on style. Overall, front façades tend to be simple in their massing
and mostly regular in their fenestration, though a variety of window and door shapes,
materials, architectural elements, and details of individual buildings increase the overall
level of complexity of the district.
(20) Orientation, Vistas, Overviews. Buildings generally face the streets and are entered from the
front façade by a single or double doorway. The tallest buildings within the district, such as
the building at 70 West Alexandrine Avenue, the building at 3901 Cass Avenue, commonly
known as Cass Avenue Methodist Church, the building at 3761 Second Avenue, commonly
known as the Coronado Apartments, and the building at 444 West Willis Avenue,
commonly known as the Willys-Overland Building, constitute landmarks that are clearly
visible from several blocks away. The buildings on Woodward Avenue, visible from a
considerable distance up and down the street, are a significant component of a broader
streetscape.
(21) Symmetric or Asymmetric Appearance. The appearance of front façades in the district is, for
the most part, symmetrical. Single-family residential buildings tend to display a modest
degree of asymmetry in massing and architectural detail.
(22) General Environmental Character. The general character of the district is that of a mediumdensity, mixed-use, urban neighborhood of small to large apartment buildings interspersed
with other building types. The district maintains a sense of vitality as a result of its mixture
of uses and the correspondingly diverse physical appearance of its buildings.

________________________________
Krystal A. Crittendon
Corporation Counsel

 I
I FEINEH LT.
Er 
k1 I 
El: {forHum

 

GERREE

STEEL 1m WW9
.Hi?3?35

csm'r H.-

an all". IHCEE

553 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



STAFF VISIT 10/29/19

 

 

 

 



MKEHNHN ?5


E. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   

THIRD AVE GARAGE

 

 

 

 

HDC STAFF VISIT 10/29/19

 



 

HDC STAFF VISIT 10/29/19

 

 

'4 


 

HDC STAFF VISIT 10/29/19

 

3?11Existing Roof and Clerestory. Roof
doesn’t have a parapet, rather it
angles up on each side to a center flat
roof. Therefore, any roofing product
will be visible.

           S20 Series
The solvent-free alternative to
replacing your weathered roof.
WHY CHOOSE
SOLVENT-FREE?

Whether your roof is large or small, flat or sloped, GacoFlex S20 Series Solvent-Free 100% Silicone
Roof Coatings provide a proven, guaranteed solution for renewing your weathered and leaking roof.
GacoFlex solvent-free
They can be applied to virtually any existing roof to create a durable, glossy, seamless membrane
silicone coatings are made
that seals and protects against permanent ponding water, ultraviolet light and severe weather. By
nearly entirely of solids –
re-coating, you not only extend the life of your roof, you avoid the need for a time-consuming and
95% of what is in the can
costly roof tear-off.
stays on the roof! The
remaining 5% is a speciallyformulated curing agent
that works by forming a
chemical bond between
the coating’s molecules
and sets the coating in
place – instead of by the
evaporation of harmful
solvents into
the environment.

Guaranteed? Yes! All GacoFlex Silicone Roof Coatings carry a 50 Year Limited
Material Warranty. In addition, a Labor & Material Warranty is available
to Gaco Western Qualified Applicators when GacoFlex S20 Series coating
is applied over E5320 2-Part Epoxy Primer/Filler and according to
Gaco Western specifications.
GacoFlex S20 Series offers decades of proven performance
and protection. Guaranteed.

®

800 456 4226
gaco.com

 GacoFlex S20 Series

Solvent-Free 100% Silicone Coating  

March 2017

DESCRIPTION

GacoFlex S20 Series coatings are solvent-free, single-component waterproof elastomeric moisture-curing silicone coatings.

USAGE

GacoFlex S20 Series are ideal for use as a maintenance coating system over pre-existing elastomeric roof coatings, metal roofs, built-up roofing, mineral cap sheet, and weathered
single ply membranes (EPDM, PVC, Hypalon®, and TPO/CPA) on a roofing substrate where the membrane surface is in sound condition, but requires a renewal of the membrane
surface due to the normal effect of aging and use.
A roof coated with GacoFlex S20 Series is ideal for use as part of a rainwater catchment system.
GacoFlex S20 Series Coatings are the standard specification for liquid applied silicone coating used in sprayed-in-place polyurethane foam roofing systems.
GacoFlex S20 Series Coatings may also be used over concrete, coatings, and over plywood decking when properly applied over an approved base coat; please contact Gaco
Western for specific recommendation.
When properly applied, the coating system provides a seamless weather-tight seal that protects the substrate from degradation caused by ultraviolet light, water and other normal
weathering hazards.

COLORS

S2000 White, S2022 Gray, S2048 Tan; S2029 Dark Gray (available as special order only)

APPLIED PRODUCT DATA
WEATHERABILITY

Excellent durability, color stability and chalk resistance.

TOXICITY

Not for use in contact with edible substances or long-term potable water storage.

CHEMICAL RESISTANCE

Excellent solvent and chemical resistance.

    
PHYSICAL PROPERTIES 
ASTM Test  
Result 
Tensile Strength @ 73°F 
D412  
450 psi 
Elongation at Break @ 73°F 
D412  
174% 
Tensile Strength @ 0°F 
D412  
574 psi 
Elongation at Break @ 0°F 
D412  
169% 
Tear Resistance (Die C) 
D624  
35.8 lbs/inch 
Crack Bridging - Low Temperature @ -15°F 
D522  
Pass 
Permeance – 20 mils DFT @ 73°F / 50% RH 
E96 – B  
5.0 Perms 
Wet Adhesion 
Spray Polyurethane Foam 
C794 / D903  
Pass 
Acrylic Coating 
C794 / D903  
Pass 
Galvanized Metal with E5320 Primer 
C794 / D903  
Pass 
BUR with E5320 Primer 
C794 / D903  
Pass 
EPDM with E5320 Primer 
C794 / D903  
Pass 
PVC with E5320 Primer 
C794 / D903  
Pass 

ASTM D6694
Requirement
150 min
100 min
150 min
100 min
20 min
Pass
2.5 min
2.0 min 
2.0 min
2.0 min
2.0 min
2.0 min
2.0 min

GacoFlex S2000 (white) meets the cool roof requirements of California Title 24 and the International Energy Conservation Code.

8,670 Hour Immersion in 150°F Water  D471  
Not Required
Tensile Strength 
D412 
450 psi  Not Required
Elongation at Break 
D412 
125% 
Not Required
1000 Hrs. Accelerated Weathering 
Elongation at Break @ 73°F 
Elongation at Break @ 0°F 

G154  
D412 
371% 
D412 
124% 

100 min
100 min

5000 Hrs. Accelerated Weathering 
Elongation at Break @ 73°F 
Elongation at Break @ 0°F 
Appearance 

G154  
D412 
126% 
D412 
124% 
D6694  Pass 

Min 50%
Min 50%
No Cracking or Checking

SOLAR PERFORMANCE 
Solar Reflectance 
Thermal Emittance 
Solar Reflectivity Index (SRI) 

ASTM Test 
C1549  
C1371  
E1980  

Initial
0.88
0.87
111 

PACKAGED PRODUCT DATA
THEORETICAL
COVERAGE

1.5 gallons per 100 sq. ft. to yield approximately 22 dry mils.
NOTE: Application rate is job specific and losses due to overspray, surface profile, and wind may occur. Additional material may be required to achieve 22 dry mils.

SOLIDS

Weight: 96.5% (Method 4041 - Fed. Std. 141) / Volume: 95%

VOC

37 g/l (0.309 lb/gal)

FLASH POINT

ASTM D3278

STORAGE STABILITY

Two years from date of manufacture when stored in sealed containers between 0°F - 80°F (-17°C - 26°C).

178°F (81°C)

APPLICATION
MIXING

Mix before application to ensure uniform color and consistency.

THINNING

Product should not be thinned.

ASPHALT ROOFING
SEALER

As an option to help inhibit bleed-through on asphaltic and bitumen-containing substrates, first apply 1 coat of GacoFlex A4207 BleedTrap Sealer for Asphalt Roofing at a rate of
100 sq. ft. per gallon to yield 8 dry mils.

PRIMER

Existing silicone coatings should not be primed. On all other substrates, apply GacoFlex E5320 2-Part Epoxy Primer/Filler according to label directions.

APPLICATION

Apply by brush or 3⁄4" nap woven roller as received. For spray application, use as received; consult Gaco Western’s Silicone Spray Guide SG-Silicone for more information. For cold weather
application, keep material stored above 65°F (18°C). Do not apply if rain is expected within 1 hour. For application in temperatures below freezing or above 120°F (49°C), contact Gaco Western.
On smooth surfaces, apply one coat at the rate of 1.5 gallons per 100 square feet to achieve approximately 22 dry mils. On granulated and other rough surfaces, apply two separate coats at the rate
of 1 gallon per 100 square feet per coat. Allow first coat to dry a minimum of 4 hours at 55°F (13°C) or higher, or until it can be safely walked on (product is moisture cure, low humidity will result in
longer dry times); recoat within 4 to 48 hours.
Coat all surfaces including expansion joint covers and flashings. Extra material is required at all edges and penetrations if neoprene sheet flashing is not used.
NOTE: Application rate is job-specific and losses due to overspray, surface profile and wind may occur. Additional material may be required to achieve 22 dry mils.

DRY TIME

Final coat should be allowed to cure 24 to 48 hours, depending on temperature and humidity, before suitable for light foot traffic.

CLEAN UP

Clean application tools and equipment with GacoFlex Silicone Solvent. Recirculate through lines and gun until residual coating is removed. DO NOT USE WATER OR RECLAIMED SOLVENTS.

For specific Safety and Health information please refer to Safety Data Sheet.
CEMENTS AND COATINGS FOR ROOFING SYSTEMS
CLASSIFIED BY UNDERWRITERS LABORATORIES INC.
AS TO AN EXTERNAL FIRE EXPOSURE ONLY 60PO

NOA#12-0426.06
Florida Product Control FL14724-RI

NSF P151
Certified

*Applies only to S2000 (white)
MKGF1003 0517
© 2017 Gaco Western

gaco.com   800 456 4226

Gaco Western was founded in 1955 with its roots in technology and product innovation. The Gaco family of brands offer
best-of-class solutions for a variety of commercial, industrial, and residential applications including specialty coatings for roof,
pedestrian and traffic decking, and spray polyurethane foam insulation.

 Home

Profile

Ann Phillips

November 15, 2018

3960 Third St. - White Box

BUILDING PERMIT APPLICATION
CITY OF DETROIT
BUILDINGS, SAFETY ENGINEERING & ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENT
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, ROOM 409, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226

Date * 11/06/2018 00:00

Property InformationCOMPLETE
Address * 3960 Third St.
Floor * 1
Suite #
Stories * 1
AKA
Lots
Subdivision
Parcel ID#(s)

003403 Ward 04

Total Acres
Lot Width
Lot Depth

N/A

Admin

Logout

 Lot Depth
Current Legal Use of Property * Storage
Proposed Use * B-2 Assembly use
Are there any existing buildings or
structures on this parcel?

Yes
No

Project InformationCOMPLETE
Permit Type *

Alteration

If Other: * N/A
If Revision (original permit has No
been issued and is active) *
Description of Work (Describe in
Interior/exterior renovations as per plans to create a white box.
detail proposed work and use of
property, attach work list) *

MBC Use Change

Yes
No

Included Improvements (Check all
applicable; these trade areas
require separate permit
applications)

HVAC/Mechanical
Electrical
Plumbing
Fire Sprinkler System
Fire Alarm

Structure Type *

Existing Structure

If Other * n/a
Size of Structure to be Demolished
(LxWxH) in cubic feet

Construction involves changes to
the floor plan? (e.g. interior
demolition or constructing new
walls)

0

Yes
No

Use Group * A-2
2B
Type of Construction (per current

Estimated Cost of Construction $

 Type of Construction (per current
MI Bldg Code Table 601) *
496838.00

Estimated Cost of Construction $
By Contractor

Estimated Cost of Construction $
By Department
Structure Use

Residential-Number of Units
*

0

Provide Number of Residential Units
Office-Gross Floor Area
*

0

Provide Gross Floor Area of Office
Industrial-Gross Floor Area
*

0

Provide Industrial Gross Floor Area
Commercial-Gross Floor Area
*

0

Provide Commercial Gross Floor Area
Institutional-Gross Floor Area
*

0

Provide Institutional Gross Floor Area
Other-Gross Floor Area
*

0

Provide Other Gross Floor Area
Proposed no. of employees
List materials to be stored in the
building

0
N/A

PLOT PLAN SHALL BE submitted on separate sheets and shall show all easements and measurements (must be correct and in
detail).
SHOW ALL streets abutting lot, indicate front of lot, show all buildings, existing and proposed distances to lot lines.

 SHOW ALL streets abutting lot, indicate front of lot, show all buildings, existing and proposed distances to lot lines.

Health- Food SafetyCOMPLETE
Are you planning on serving and/or
selling any food or beverage? *

Yes
No

If you answered "Yes" to the question above, please click HERE to review, complete and attach all the required Health related plans and
documents.

Building Permit Application RequestCOMPLETE

The City of Detroit offers its customers the ability to pay for the Building Permit at the time their Plan Review applications are submitted.

Building Permit and Plan Review fees will have to be paid in full prior for the review process to begin if this service is requested.
Would you like to request Building
Permit Fee to be paid along with the
Plan Review Fees? *

Yes
No

Identification (All Fields Required)COMPLETE
Property Owner/Homeowner is
Permit Applicant *

No

Contractor is Permit Applicant *

Yes

Tenant or Business Occupant is
Permit Applicant *
Architect/Engineer/Consultant is
Permit Applicant *

No
No

Property Owner/Homeowner is Permit Applicant (optional)

Homeowner Affidavit (optional)

 Contractor is Permit ApplicantCOMPLETE
Representative Name * W.C.C.I. - Wilson Company Contrractors, Inc.
Company Name * Gary Wilson
Address * 2790 Island View Rd.
City * Traverse City
State *

MI Michigan

Zip * 49686
Phone

(734) 661-5943

Mobile * (734) 604-0977
Email * carlson@3missionpartners.com
Driver's License# * 0000
Driver's License Expiration Date * 11/06/2018 00:00
Property Owner Name * Selden AA Third Street Garage, LLC
Property Owner Address * 3075 Charlevoix Dr., Ste. 100 - Grand Rapids, MI 49686
Property Owner Phone Number * (231) 620-0136
Property Owner Email * gwilsonwcci@gmail.com

Tenant or Business Occupant is Permit Applicant (optional)

Architect/Engineer/Consultant is Permit Applicant (optional)

SignatureINCOMPLETE

 Applicant: Ann Phillips

Signature date:

Home   Profile

 