AGENDA
CUYAHOGA COUNTY FINANCE & BUDGETING COMMITTEE MEETING
MONDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2019
CUYAHOGA COUNTY ADMINISTRATIVE HEADQUARTERS
C. ELLEN CONNALLY COUNCIL CHAMBERS – 4TH FLOOR
1:00 PM
1. CALL TO ORDER
2. ROLL CALL
3. PUBLIC COMMENT
4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES FROM THE NOVEMBER 4, 2019 MEETING [See page 3]
5. MATTERS REFERRED TO COMMITTEE
a)

R2019-0276: A Resolution authorizing the issuance and sale of County
of Cuyahoga, Ohio, Economic Development Revenue Refunding Bonds,
Series 2020A (Brownfield Redevelopment Fund Project), in the
maximum aggregate principal amount of $11,000,000.00, in one or
more series, to refund the County’s Economic Development Revenue
Bonds, Series 2010A, originally issued for the purpose of providing
moneys to pay costs of “projects” within the meaning of Chapter 165,
Ohio Revised Code; authorizing the execution and delivery of a
supplemental trust indenture securing the payment of the bonds;
establishing funds of the County related thereto; authorizing the
execution and delivery of a purchase agreement relating to the sale of
the bonds and related agreements and certificates; authorizing and
approving related matters; and declaring the necessity that this
Resolution become immediately effective. [See page 5]

b)

R2019-0277: A Resolution authorizing the issuance and sale of County
of Cuyahoga, Ohio, Economic Development Revenue Bonds, Series
2010B (Commercial Redevelopment Fund Project), in the maximum
aggregate principal amount of $7,500,000.00, in one or more series, for
the purpose of providing moneys to pay costs of “projects” within the
Page 1 of 98

 meaning of Chapter 165, Ohio Revised Code; authorizing the execution
and delivery of a trust indenture securing the payment of the bonds;
establishing funds of the county related thereto; authorizing the
execution and delivery of a purchase agreement relating to the sale of
the bonds and related agreements and certificates; authorizing and
approving related matters; and declaring the necessity that this
Resolution become immediately effective. [See page 39]
c)

R2019-0278: A Resolution authorizing the issuance and sale of County
of Cuyahoga, Ohio, Economic Development Revenue Refunding Bonds,
Series 2010C (Gateway Arena Project), in the maximum aggregate
principal amount of $16,000,000.00, in one or more series, for the
purpose of providing moneys to refund certain outstanding bonds
issued to pay costs of a “Project” within the meaning of Chapter 165,
Ohio Revised Code and to refund bonds previously issued for that
purpose; authorizing the execution and delivery of a supplemental trust
indenture securing the payment of the bonds, a purchase agreement
relating to the sale of the bonds and related agreements and
certificates; authorizing and approving related matters; and declaring
the necessity that this Resolution become immediately effective. [See page 72]

6. MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS
7. ADJOURNMENT

*Complimentary parking for the public is available in the attached garage at 900
Prospect. A skywalk extends from the garage to provide additional entry to the Council
Chambers from the 5th floor parking level of the garage. Please see the Clerk to obtain a
complimentary parking pass.
**Council Chambers is equipped with a hearing assistance system. If needed, please see
the Clerk to obtain a receiver.

Page 2 of 98

 MINUTES
CUYAHOGA COUNTY FINANCE & BUDGETING COMMITTEE MEETING
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2019
CUYAHOGA COUNTY ADMINISTRATIVE HEADQUARTERS
C. ELLEN CONNALLY COUNCIL CHAMBERS – 4TH FLOOR
1:00 PM
1. CALL TO ORDER
Chairman Miller called the meeting to order at 1:03 p.m.
2. ROLL CALL
Mr. Miller asked Assistant Deputy Clerk Johnson to call the roll. Committee
members Miller, Tuma, Gallagher, Schron and Brown were in attendance and a
quorum was determined. Committee member Baker entered the meeting after the
roll call was taken. Council member Brady was also in attendance.
3. PUBLIC COMMENT
There were no public comments given.
4. APPROVAL OF MINUTES FROM THE OCTOBER 17, 2019 MEETING
A motion was made by Mr. Schron, seconded by Mr. Tuma and approved by
unanimous vote to approve the minutes from the October 17, 2019 meeting.
5. MATTERS REFERRED TO COMMITTEE
a)

O2019-0011: An Ordinance enacting Chapter 725 of the Cuyahoga
County Code to establish an Opioid Mitigation Fund for the purpose of
collecting and expending all funds received as part of any action related
to the matter of In Re: National Prescription Opiate Litigation, United
States District Court, Northern District of Ohio, Eastern Division, Case
No. 1:2017-md-02804; and declaring the necessity that this Ordinance
become immediately effective.
Page 3 of 98

 Mr. Trevor McAleer, Legislative Budget Advisor and Ms. Amy Himmelein,
Controller, addressed the Committee regarding Ordinance No. O2019-0011.
Discussion ensued.
Committee members and Councilmembers asked questions of Mr. McAleer and Ms.
Himmelein pertaining to the item, which they answered accordingly.
Mr. Miller introduced a proposed substitute to Ordinance No. O2019-0011.
Discussion ensued.
A motion was made by Mr. Schron, seconded by Mr. Tuma and approved by
unanimous vote to accept the proposed substitute.
On a motion by Mr. Schron with a second by Mr. Tuma, Ordinance No. O2019-0011
was considered and approved by unanimous vote to be referred to the full Council
agenda under second reading, as substituted.
6. MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS
a)

Update on budget process

Councilman Miller provided the Committee with a brief update on the budget
process and announced that the deadline for any departmental budget changes will
be on Tuesday, November 5, 2019 at the close of business. He also advised the
Committee that the next budget hearings will take place on Tuesday, November 12,
2019 at the Committee of the Whole meeting.
b) Presentation by Juvenile Court regarding Biennial Budget
Ms. Terease Neff, Court Administrator for Juvenile Court; Mr. Jim Ginley, Fiscal
Director for the Prosecutor’s Office; Mr. Thomas Rehnert, Deputy Court
Administrator for Detention with Juvenile Court, Ms. Margaret Keenan, Director of
the Office of Budget and Management; and Mr. Mark Majer, Legal Counsel for
Juvenile Court, addressed the Committee regarding budget requests for the Court.
Discussion ensued.
Committee members and Councilmembers asked questions of Ms. Neff, Mr. Ginley,
Mr. Rehnert, Ms. Keenan and Mr. Mark Majer pertaining to the item, which they
answered accordingly.
7. ADJOURNMENT
With no further business to discuss, Chairman Miller adjourned the meeting at 2:05
p.m., without objection.

Page 4 of 98

 County Council of Cuyahoga County, Ohio
Resolution No. R2019-0276
Sponsored by: County Executive
Budish/Fiscal Officer/Office of
Budget and Management

A Resolution authorizing the issuance and
sale of County of Cuyahoga, Ohio,
Economic
Development
Revenue
Refunding
Bonds,
Series
2020A
(Brownfield Redevelopment Fund Project),
in the maximum aggregate principal amount
of $11,000,000.00, in one or more series, to
refund
the
County’s
Economic
Development Revenue Bonds, Series
2010A, originally issued for the purpose of
providing moneys to pay costs of “projects”
within the meaning of Chapter 165, Ohio
Revised Code; authorizing the execution
and delivery of a supplemental trust
indenture securing the payment of the
bonds; establishing funds of the County
related thereto; authorizing the execution
and delivery of a purchase agreement
relating to the sale of the bonds and related
agreements and certificates; authorizing and
approving related matters; and declaring the
necessity that this Resolution become
immediately effective.

WHEREAS, the County has outstanding its Economic Development Revenue
Bonds, Series 2010A (Brownfield Redevelopment Fund Project) (the “Outstanding
Bonds”); and
WHEREAS, this Council finds and determines that it is in the best interest of
the County to refund certain of the Outstanding Bonds as set forth in the Final Terms
Certificate authorized herein (the “Refunded Bonds”) and to take other actions as
necessary in connection therewith; and
WHEREAS, the Series 2020 Bonds shall be issued pursuant to the Trust
Indenture dated as of October 1, 1998 (the “Original Indenture”), as supplemented and
amended from time to time, including by a Third Supplemental Trust Indenture (the
“Third Supplemental Indenture”), in form and substance consistent with the terms of
this Resolution as shall be conclusively evidenced by the execution thereof by the
officials authorized to execute such document herein.

Page 5 of 98

 WHEREAS, it is necessary that this Resolution become immediately effective
in order that the usual daily operation of the County be continued and the public peace,
health or safety of the County be preserved and for the further reason that funds be
made available in a timely manner to achieve the benefits of refunding the Outstanding
Bonds.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COUNTY COUNCIL OF
CUYAHOGA COUNTY, OHIO:
Section 1.
Definitions. In addition to the words and terms elsewhere defined in
this Resolution or in the Indenture, the following words and terms as used in this
Resolution shall have the meanings set forth below. Capitalized words and terms not
defined in this Section or elsewhere in this Resolution and used herein shall have the
meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
“Bond” or “Bonds” means the Series 2020 Bonds and Additional Bonds.
“Bond Counsel” means McDonald Hopkins LLC.
“Clerk” means the Clerk of this Council.
“Closing Date” means the date of original delivery of, and payment of the purchase
price for, the Series 2020 Bonds.
“Commercial Redevelopment Indenture” means the Trust Indenture authorized to be
dated as of August 1, 2010 between the Issuer and the Commercial Redevelopment
Trustee, as many be amended and supplemental from time to time.
“Commercial Redevelopment Revenues” means the Revenues as defined in the
Commercial Redevelopment Indenture.
“Commercial Redevelopment Trustee” means the trustee under the Commercial
Redevelopment Indenture.
“Continuing Disclosure Certificate” means the certificate authorized by Section 5(c)
hereof which, together with the agreements of the County set forth in that Section, shall
constitute the continuing disclosure agreement made by the County for the benefit of
holders and beneficial owners of the Series 2010 Bonds in accordance with the Rule.
“Council” means the Council of the County.
“County Executive” means the County Executive of the County or designee for the
purposes of signing documents.
“County Fiscal Officer” means the Fiscal Officer of the County or designee for
purposes of signing documents.

Page 6 of 98

 “Depository” means The Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust
company), New York, New York until a successor Depository shall have become such
pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Second Supplemental Indenture and,
thereafter, Depository shall mean the successor Depository. Any Depository shall be a
securities depository that is a clearing agency under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its participants or otherwise, a Book Entry System to record
ownership of book entry interests in the Series 2010 Bonds or Bond Service Charges
thereon, and to effect transfers of book entry interests in the Series 2010 Bonds.
“Escrow Agreement” means the Escrow Agreement authorized by Section 11 hereof.
“Escrow Trustee” means the Escrow Trustee appointed in the Escrow Agreement.
“Final Terms Certificate” means the certificate authorized by Section 5, to be signed
by the County Fiscal Officer or County Executive, setting forth and determining those
terms or other matters pertaining to the Series 2020 Bonds and their issuance, sale and
delivery as this Resolution requires or authorizes to be set forth or determined therein.
“Gateway Indenture” means the Master Indenture dated as of September 15, 1992, as
amended and supplemented by the First Supplemental Trust Indenture and Second
Supplemental Trust Indenture, each dated as of September 15, 1992, the Third
Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated as of February 1, 1994, the Fourth Supplemental
Indenture dated as of February 1, 2004, and the Fifth Supplemental Indenture
authorized to be dated as of August 1, 2010, between the Issuer and the Gateway
Trustee, as may be further amended and supplemented from time to time.
“Gateway Revenues” means the Revenues as defined in the Gateway Indenture.
“Gateway Trustee” means The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as
trustee under the Gateway Indenture, and its successors and assigns.
“Indenture” means collectively the Original Indenture as amended and supplemented
by the First Supplemental Trust Indenture, Second Supplemental Trust Indenture and
the Third Supplemental Trust Indenture, and as may be further amended and
supplemented from time to time.
“Issuance Expense Account” means the Issuance Expense Account in the
Redevelopment Fund created by the Third Supplemental Indenture.
“Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements” means, as to the Series 2020
Bonds, the deposits required to be made in respect of the mandatory redemption
requirements indicated in the Indenture.
“Nontax Revenues” means all money of the County that is not money raised by
taxation, to the extent available for deposit in the Debt Retirement Fund, the Bond

Page 7 of 98

 Reserve Fund or the Pledge Fund as provided in the Indenture, including, but not
limited to the following: (a) charges for services and payments received in
reimbursement for services; (b) payments in lieu of taxes now or hereafter authorized
by State statute; (c) fines and forfeitures; (d) fees from properly imposed licenses and
permits; (e) investment earnings on any funds of the County that are credited to the
County’s General Fund; (f) proceeds from the sale of assets; (g) rental income; (h)
grants from the United States of America and the State of Ohio; (i) gifts and donations;
and (j) Net Project Revenues; provided that Nontax Revenues do not include the
Gateway Revenues, Commercial Redevelopment Revenues or Project Revenues which
are required to be deposited in the Outside Loan Repayment Fund or the OWDA
Repayment Fund pursuant to Section 5.06 of the Original Indenture.
“Original Purchaser” means such purchasers of the Series 2020 Bonds identified in
the Purchase Agreement for the Series 2020 Bonds.
“Pledged Nontax Revenues” means (i) all Net Project Revenues, (ii) proceeds of any
series of Bonds to be used to pay capitalized interest or otherwise to be available to pay
Bond Service Charges, (iii) Nontax Revenues in the Pledge Fund, (iv) all money in the
Special Funds and (v) all income and profit from the investment of the foregoing
money.
“Program” means the financing of Projects with money in the Redevelopment Fund.
“Project” means a “project” as defined in the Act, including the acquisition and
redevelopment of underused or abandoned commercial or industrial property within
the County.
“Purchase Agreement” means, with respect to the Series 2020 Bonds, one or more
Bond Purchase Agreements between the County and the Original Purchaser.
“Refunded Bonds” means those portions of the County’s outstanding Economic
Development Revenue Bonds, Series 2010A as set forth in the Final Terms Certificate.
“Rule” means Rule 15c2-12 prescribed by the SEC pursuant to the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934.
“SEC” means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
“Series 2020 Bonds” means the County’s Taxable Economic Development Revenue
Refunding Bonds, Series 2020A (Brownfield Redevelopment Fund Project), issued
pursuant to this Resolution and the Indenture.
“Trustee” means The Huntington National Bank, a national banking association
organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America and duly
qualified to exercise corporate trust powers in the State of Ohio, until a successor

Page 8 of 98

 Trustee shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Indenture,
and thereafter “Trustee” shall mean the successor Trustee.
The captions and headings in this Resolution are solely for convenience of reference
and do not define, limit or describe the scope or intent of any provisions or Sections of
this Resolution.
Section 2.
Determinations by this Council. This Council finds and determines
that (i) the issuance of the Series 2020 Bonds for the purpose of refunding the Refunded
Bonds is consistent with the requirements of Section 165.07 of the Act; and (ii) the
issuance of the Series 2020 Bonds for that purpose is in furtherance of the purposes of
the Act and will benefit the people of the County and of the State. Consistent with
Section 165.031, in the resolution authorizing the Refunded Bonds, the County
required that all wages paid to laborers and mechanics employed on the project
financed by the Refunded Bonds be paid at prevailing rates of wages for the class of
work called for, determined in accordance with the requirements of Ohio Revised Code
Chapter 4115.
Section 3.
Authorization of Series 2020 Bonds. It is necessary and proper and in
the best interest of the County to, and the County shall, issue the Series 2020 Bonds in
an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $11,000,000 for the purpose of providing
funds to refund the Refunded Bonds, and to pay costs and expenses related to the
issuance of the Series 2020 Bonds. The final aggregate principal amount of the Series
2020 Bonds will be determined in the Final Terms Certificate as provided in Section 5
hereof. The Series 2020 Bonds shall be payable and secured as provided herein.
The Series 2020 Bonds may be issued in one or more separate series, each bearing a
distinctive designation, provided that the Series 2020 Bonds of each series satisfy the
requirements of this Resolution and the Indenture. Separate series of Series 2020 Bonds
may be issued at the same or different times. The Series 2020 Bonds of each series shall
be designated as provided in the applicable Final Terms Certificate. A separate Final
Terms Certificate may be delivered for each series. In each case there shall be included
in the costs funded the costs of issuance of the Series 2020 Bonds and any required
deposits to the Special Funds.
Section 4.

Terms and Provisions of the Series 2020 Bonds.

(a)
Generally. The Series 2020 Bonds (i) shall be issued only in fully
registered form, substantially as set forth in the Third Supplemental Indenture; (ii) shall
be exchangeable for Series 2020 Bonds of Authorized Denominations, as provided in
the Indenture; (iii) shall be numbered in such manner as determined by the Trustee in
order to distinguish each Series 2020 Bond from any other Series 2020 Bond; and (iv)
shall be in Authorized Denominations. The Series 2020 Bonds may be subject to both
optional and mandatory redemption in the amounts, upon the conditions, and at the
times and prices set forth in the Final Terms Certificate provided for in Section 5 hereof
and in the Third Supplemental Indenture. The Series 2020 Bonds shall be dated the
Closing Date, or such earlier date, not more than 60 days prior to the Closing Date, as

Page 9 of 98

 may be established in the Final Terms Certificate. The Series 2020 Bonds shall be
designated “Taxable Economic Development Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series
2020A (Brownfield Redevelopment Fund Project)”, or such other designation as
specified in the Final Terms Certificate.
(b)
Principal Amount Interest Rates and Payment Dates. The actual
principal amount of the Series 2020 Bonds shall be specified in the Final Terms
Certificate. The Series 2020 Bonds shall bear the rate or rates of interest per year
(computed on a 360-day per year basis), as shall be established, subject to subsection
(d) of this Section, in the Final Terms Certificate. Interest on the Series 2020 Bonds
shall be payable at such rate or rates on the Interest Payment Dates until the principal
amount has been paid or provided for. The Series 2020 Bonds shall bear interest from
the most recent date to which interest has been paid or provided for or, if no interest
has been paid or provided for, from their date.
(c)
Principal Payment Schedule. The Series 2020 Bonds shall mature or be
payable pursuant to Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements on the
Principal Payment Dates in principal amounts as shall be determined by the signing
officer, subject to subsection (d) of this Section, in the Final Terms Certificate,
consistent with that officer’s determination of the best interest of and financial
advantages to the County.
Consistent with the foregoing and in accordance with that officer’s
determination of the best interest of and financial advantages to the County, the County
Fiscal Officer or County Executive shall specify in the Final Terms Certificate (i) the
aggregate principal amount of Series 2020 Bonds to be issued as Serial Bonds, the
Principal Payment Dates on which those Series 2020 Bonds shall be stated to mature
and the principal amount thereof that shall be stated to mature on each such Principal
Payment Date, and (ii) the aggregate principal amount of Series 2020 Bonds to be
issued as Term Bonds, the Principal Payment Date or Dates on which those Series 2020
Bonds shall be stated to mature, the amount thereof that shall be stated to mature on
each such Principal Payment Date, the Principal Payment Date or Dates on which Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption (Mandatory Redemption
Dates) and the amount thereof that shall be payable pursuant to Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements on each Mandatory Redemption Date.
(d)
Conditions for Establishment of Interest Rates and Principal Payment
Dates and Amounts. The first Principal Payment Date shall occur on such date as set
forth in the Final Terms Certificate determined to be necessary and advisable to the
sale of the Series 2020 Bonds and in the best interests and financial advantages of the
County, and the final Principal Payment Date shall occur not later than the final
maturity date of the Refunded Bonds. The weighted average of the rate or rates of
interest per year to be borne by the Series 2020 Bonds, determined by taking into
account the respective principal amounts of the Series 2020 Bonds and terms to
maturity or mandatory sinking fund redemption of those principal amounts of Series
2010 Bonds, shall not exceed 6% per year.

Page 10 of 98

 (e)
Payment of Bond Service Charges. The Bond Service Charges on the
Series 2020 Bonds shall be payable in lawful money of the United States of America
without deduction for the services of the Trustee as paying agent. Principal of and any
premium on the Series 2020 Bonds shall be payable when due upon presentation and
surrender of the Series 2020 Bonds at the principal corporate trust office of the Trustee.
Interest on the Series 2020 Bonds shall be paid on each Interest Payment Date by check
or draft mailed to the person in whose name the Series 2020 Bond was registered, and
to that person’s address appearing, on the Bond Register at the close of business on the
Regular Record Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if and so long as the Series 2020
Bonds are issued in a book entry system, principal of and interest and any premium on
the Series 2020 Bonds shall be payable in the manner provided in any agreement
entered into by the County Fiscal Officer or County Executive, in the name and on
behalf of the County, in connection with the book entry system.
(f)
Redemption Provisions. Except as otherwise provided in the Final
Terms Certificate consistent with the determination by the signing officer of the best
interest of and financial advantages to the County, the Series 2020 Bonds shall be
subject to redemption prior to stated maturity as follows:
(i)
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption of Term Bonds. If any of the
Series 2020 Bonds are issued as Term Bonds, the Term Bonds shall be subject
to mandatory redemption and be redeemed pursuant to mandatory sinking fund
requirements, at a redemption price of 100% of the amount redeemed, plus
accrued interest to the redemption date, on the applicable Mandatory
Redemption Dates and in the amounts payable on those Dates, as set forth in
the Final Terms Certificate and the Third Supplemental Indenture.
(ii)
Optional Redemption. The Series 2020 Bonds shall also be subject to
redemption at the option of the County in accordance with the terms and
conditions set forth in the Final Terms Certificate and in the Third Supplemental
Indenture if and as requested by the Original Purchaser; provided that the
redemption price for the earliest optional redemption date shall not be greater
than 102%; and provided further, however, that the Final Terms Certificate and
the Third Supplemental Indenture may provide that the Series 2020 Bonds are
not optionally redeemable prior to maturity if it is determined in the Final Terms
Certificate that such optional redemption would adversely affect the ability of
the County to sell the Series 2020 Bonds at rates of interest acceptable to the
County based on current market conditions for taxable, fixed-interest rate
obligations such as the Series 2020 Bonds.
If so designated in the Final Terms Certificate, the Series 2020 Bonds
shall also be subject to redemption at the option of the County prior to their
stated maturities at any time in whole or in part on any date, at a redemption
price that will make the holders of such Series 2020 Bonds whole for the early
redemption; if so, then the Final Terms Certificate shall specify the method by
which the “make whole” redemption price shall be determined, provided that

Page 11 of 98

 the redemption price shall not be greater than 110% without further
authorization of the Board.
If money for the redemption of all of the Series 2020 Bonds and portions
thereof to be redeemed, together with accrued interest thereon to the redemption
date, is held by the Trustee on the redemption date, so as to be available therefor
on that date and, if notice of redemption has been deposited in the mail as
provided in the Indenture, then from and after the redemption date those Series
2020 Bonds and portions thereof called for redemption shall cease to bear
interest and no longer shall be considered to be outstanding. If that money shall
not be so available on the redemption date, or that notice shall not have been
deposited in the mail as aforesaid, those Series 2020 Bonds and portions thereof
shall continue to bear interest, until they are paid, at the same rate as they would
have borne had they not been called for redemption. All money held by the
Trustee for the redemption of particular Series 2020 Bonds shall be held in trust
for the account of the registered owners thereof and shall be paid to them,
respectively, upon presentation and surrender of those Series 2020 Bonds.
(g)
Signing. The Series 2020 Bonds shall be signed by the County
Executive and the County Fiscal Officer, provided that one or all of such signatures
may be a facsimile.
(h)
Book Entry System. The Series 2020 Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry system and, if and as long as a book entry system is
utilized: (i) the Series 2020 Bonds may be issued in the form of a single, fully registered
Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository or its
nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the custody of the Depository or its
designated agent, which may be the Trustee; (ii) the beneficial owners of Series 2020
Bonds in book entry form shall have no right to receive Series 2020 Bonds in the form
of physical securities or certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in Series
2020 Bonds in book entry form shall be shown by book entry on the system maintained
and operated by the Depository and its Participants, and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made only by book entry by the Depository and its
Participants; and (iv) the Series 2020 Bonds as such shall not be transferable or
exchangeable, except for transfer to another Depository or to another nominee of a
Depository, without further action by the County.
If any Depository determines not to continue to act as a Depository for the
Series 2010 Bonds for use in a book entry system, the County may attempt to establish
a securities depository/book entry system relationship with another qualified
Depository. If the County does not or is unable to do so, the County and the Trustee,
after the Trustee has made provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the
then Depository and any other arrangements deemed necessary, shall permit
withdrawal of the Series 2010 Bonds from the Depository, and shall cause Bond
certificates in registered form to be authenticated by the Trustee and delivered to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense (including costs of
printing) of those persons requesting such issuance.

Page 12 of 98

 The County Executive or County Fiscal Officer is hereby authorized and
directed, to the extent necessary or required, to enter into any agreements, in the name
and on behalf of the County, that that officer determines to be necessary in connection
with a book entry system for the Series 2020 Bonds, after determining that entering
into those agreements will not endanger the funds or securities of the County.
Section 5.
Sale of the Series 2020 Bonds; Official Statement; Continuing
Disclosure; Ratings, Credit Enhancement.
(a)
Sale of the Series 2020 Bonds. The Series 2020 Bonds are hereby
awarded to the Original Purchaser. The County Executive and County Fiscal Officer
shall continue to work with the Original Purchaser to determine the interest rates on
and the aggregate principal amount and principal maturities and other terms of the
Series 2020 Bonds in order to consummate the sale of the Series 2020 Bonds. The
County Executive or County Fiscal Officer is authorized to approve the final principal
amount of the Series 2020 Bonds (provided that such principal amount shall not exceed
the amount authorized in Section 3 hereof) and the interest rates on the Series 2020
Bonds, the dated date of the Series 2020 Bonds and a maturity schedule, all as set forth
in and subject to the limitations contained in Section 4 hereof, and to determine the
amount of the proceeds of the Series 2020 Bonds to be allocated to the appropriate
accounts and funds related to the Series 2020 Bonds. Such approval shall be evidenced
by the signing of the Final Terms Certificate by the County Executive or County Fiscal
Officer that shall set forth the principal amount of and interest rates on the Series 2020
Bonds and the maturity schedule and the dated date of the Series 2020 Bonds together
with any other matters required under this Resolution. The Final Terms Certificate shall
be incorporated in and form a part of this Resolution.
At the time of the signing of the Final Terms Certificate, the County Executive
or County Fiscal Officer is authorized to sell the Series 2020 Bonds to the Original
Purchaser at the purchase price established in the Final Terms Certificate, which
purchase price shall not be less than 97% of the aggregate original offering price to the
public, plus accrued interest, and in accordance with the terms and provisions of this
Resolution, including the Final Terms Certificate, and the Purchase Agreement. The
County Executive or County Fiscal Officer is further authorized to sign, acknowledge
and deliver, in the name of and on behalf of the County, a Purchase Agreement in form
and substance consistent with the terms of this Resolution as shall be conclusively
evidenced by the execution and delivery thereof. The County Executive or County
Fiscal Officer is authorized to make the necessary arrangements on behalf of the
County to establish the date, location, procedure and conditions for the delivery of the
Series 2020 Bonds to the Original Purchaser. That officer is further authorized to take
all actions necessary to effect due signing, authentication and delivery of the Series
2020 Bonds under the terms of this Resolution, the Purchase Agreement and the
Indenture.
It is determined that the parameters for the purchase price for and the terms of
the Series 2020 Bonds, and the sale thereof, all as provided for in this Resolution, are

Page 13 of 98

 in the best interest of and most advantageous for the County and in compliance with all
legal requirements, as advised by Bond Counsel.
(b)
Official Statement. The distribution of a preliminary Official Statement
of the County relating to the original issuance of the Series 2020 Bonds is authorized
and approved, and the County Executive or County Fiscal Officer and any other official
of the County are authorized and directed to complete and sign, on behalf of the County
and in their official capacities, a final Official Statement, with such modifications,
changes and supplements as are necessary or desirable for the purposes thereof as such
officers shall approve. Such officers are authorized to use and distribute, or authorize
the use and distribution of, the preliminary and the final Official Statement and any
supplements thereto as so signed in connection with the original issuance of the Series
2020 Bonds, and are authorized and directed to advise the Original Purchaser in writing
regarding limitations on the use of the Official Statement and any supplements thereto
for purposes of marketing or reoffering the Series 2020 Bonds as the officer acting
deems necessary or appropriate to protect the interests of the County. The County
Executive or County Fiscal Officer and any other official of the County are authorized
to sign and deliver, on behalf of the County and in their official capacities, such
certificates in connection with the accuracy of the preliminary and final Official
Statement and any supplements thereto as, in their judgment, may be necessary or
appropriate and to determine, and to certify or otherwise represent, when the official
statement is to be “deemed final” (except for permitted omissions) by the County as of
its date or is a final official statement for purposes of SEC Rule 15c2-12(b)(1), (3) and
(4).
(c)
Agreement to Provide Continuing Disclosure. If deemed necessary and
requested by the Original Purchaser, the County shall agree, as the only obligated
person with respect to the Series 2020 Bonds under the Rule, to provide or cause to be
provided such financial information and operating data, financial statements and
notices, in such manner, as may be required for purposes of paragraph (b)(5) of the
Rule. In order to describe and specify certain terms of the County’s continuing
disclosure agreement for that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement,
including provisions for enforcement, amendment and termination, the County
Executive or County Fiscal Officer is authorized to sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the County, the Continuing Disclosure Certificate in form and substance
consistent with the Resolution as shall be conclusively evidenced by the execution and
delivery of thereof. The agreement formed, collectively, by this paragraph and that
Certificate, shall be the County’s continuing disclosure agreement for purposes of the
Rule, and its performance shall be subject to the availability of funds and their annual
appropriation to meet costs the County would be required to incur to perform it.
The County Executive or County Fiscal Officer is further authorized and
directed to establish procedures in order to ensure compliance by the County with its
continuing disclosure agreement, including timely provision of information and
notices. Prior to making any filing in accordance with that agreement or providing
notice of the occurrence of any other events, the responsible County officer shall
consult with and obtain legal advice from, as appropriate, the Prosecuting Attorney and

Page 14 of 98

 bond or other qualified independent special counsel selected by the County. That
County officer, acting in the name and on behalf of the County, shall be entitled to rely
upon any such legal advice in determining whether a filing should be made.
(d)
Authorization for Application for Ratings or Credit Enhancement. If, in
the judgment of the County Executive or County Fiscal Officer, the filing of an
application for (i) a rating on the Series 2020 Bonds by one or more nationallyrecognized rating services or (ii) a policy of insurance or other credit enhancement
facility from a company or companies to better assure the payment of principal of and
interest on the Series 2020 Bonds is in the best interest of and financially advantageous
to this County, such determination shall be set forth in the Final Terms Certificate, and
the County Executive or County Fiscal Officer is authorized to prepare and submit
those applications, to provide to each such service or provider, such information as may
be required for the purpose, and to provide further for the payment of the cost of
obtaining each such rating, facility or policy, except to the extent paid by the Original
Purchaser, from the proceeds of the Series 2020 Bonds to the extent available and
otherwise from any other funds lawfully available and that are appropriated or shall be
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 6.
Application of Proceeds of the Series 2010 Bonds. The proceeds of
sale of the Series 2020 Bonds shall be allocated and deposited in such appropriate fund
or funds or accounts thereof as set forth in the Final Terms Certificate.
Section 7.
Security for the Bonds. The Series 2020 Bonds are special obligations
of the County, and the Bond Service Charges on the Series 2020 Bonds are payable
solely from the Nontax Revenues, and such payment is secured by a pledge of and an
assignment of the Nontax Revenues and the assignment of and grant of a security
interest in the Pledged Nontax Revenues as provided in this Resolution and in the
Indenture. The County hereby covenants and agrees that, as provided in the Indenture,
it shall appropriate in its annual appropriation measure for each Year, and shall deposit
in the Pledge Fund on or before January 15 of each Year, Nontax Revenues in an
amount sufficient to pay all Bond Service Charges due and payable in the then current
Year, less any amounts remaining in the Pledge Fund after all Bond Service Charges
for the prior Year have been paid. The County hereby further covenants and agrees that
in the event the amount in the Pledge Fund is not sufficient to pay Bond Service
Charges due and payable on the Bonds thirty (30) days prior to any Payment Date, the
County immediately shall make a supplemental appropriation for, and shall deposit in,
the Pledge Fund an amount sufficient to make up any such deficiency.
The payments due hereunder and under the Bonds are payable solely from the
Nontax Revenues as defined in this Resolution, which Nontax Revenues are hereby
determined by this Board to be money that is not raised by taxation. The Series 2020
Bonds do not and shall not represent or constitute a debt or pledge of the faith or credit
or taxing power of the County, and the owners of the Series 2020 Bonds have no right
to have taxes levied by the County for the payment of Bond Service Charges.

Page 15 of 98

 The County covenants that, so long as any of the Bonds are outstanding, it shall
not issue any Parity Obligations, unless, prior to adoption of the resolution authorizing
such Parity Obligations, the County shall have certified to the Trustee that the average
annual Nontax Revenues during the Coverage Computation Period, adjusted to reflect,
if necessary, changes in the rates or charges resulting in the Nontax Revenues, will
aggregate in amount not less than the Coverage Ratio of the highest amount of (a) Bond
Service Charges and (b) required payments on such proposed Parity Obligations and
any outstanding Parity Obligations due in any succeeding Year.
Nothing herein shall be construed as requiring the County to use or apply to the
payment of Bond Service Charges any funds or revenues from any source other than
Nontax Revenues. Nothing herein, however, shall be deemed to prohibit the County,
of its own volition, from using, to the extent that it is authorized by law to do so, any
other resources for the fulfillment of any of the terms, conditions or obligations of this
Resolution or of the Series 2020 Bonds.
Section 8.
Covenants of County. The County, by issuance of the Series 2020
Bonds, covenants and agrees with the Holders of the Series 2020 Bonds that:
(a)
Use of Proceeds. The County will use the proceeds of the Series 2020
Bonds for the purposes stated herein.
(b)
Segregation of Funds. The County will segregate, for accounting
purposes, the Funds established under the Indenture from all other revenues and funds
of the County.
(c)
Transcript of Proceedings. The Clerk of this Board, or other appropriate
officer of the County, will furnish to the Original Purchaser and to the Trustee a true
transcript of proceedings, certified by the Clerk of this Board or other officer, of all
proceedings had with reference to the issuance of the Series 2020 Bonds together with
such information from the County’s records as is necessary to determine the regularity
and validity of such issuance.
(d)
Further Acts. The County will, at any and all times, cause to be done all
such further acts and things and cause to be signed and delivered all such further
instruments as may be necessary to carry out the purpose of the Series 2010 Bonds and
any resolution authorizing the same or as may be required by the Act.
(e)
Obligations of the County. The County will observe and perform all its
agreements and obligations provided for by the Bonds, the Indenture or this Resolution.
All of the obligations under this Resolution and the Indenture are hereby established as
duties specifically enjoined by law and resulting from an office, trust or station upon
the County within the meaning of Section 2731.01 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Section 9.
Third Supplemental Indenture. To secure the payment of the Bond
Service Charges on the Bonds as the same shall become due and payable and the
performance by the County of its obligations as provided in this Resolution, the Bonds

Page 16 of 98

 and the Indenture, the County Executive or County Fiscal Officer are authorized and
directed, for and in the name of the County and on its behalf, to sign and deliver to the
Trustee the Third Supplemental Indenture in form and substance consistent with the
Resolution as shall be conclusively evidenced by the execution and delivery thereof.
Section 10. Other Documents and Actions. The County Executive, County Fiscal
Officer, the Clerk of this Council, the Director of Law, the Prosecuting Attorney and
other County officials, as appropriate, are further authorized to sign any notices,
certifications, financing statements, documents, instruments and opinions, and to take
such other actions, as are desirable, advisable, necessary or appropriate to perfect the
assignments set forth in the Indenture and to consummate the transactions contemplated
by this Resolution, the Indenture and the Purchase Agreement.
Section 11. Refunding of Outstanding Bonds. This Council determines that it is
in the best interest of the County to refund the Outstanding Bonds and to establish an
escrow fund to pay principal of and interest on the Outstanding Bonds through their
first optional redemption date, and to pay the redemption price of the Outstanding
Bonds on such redemption date. The County Fiscal Officer is authorized and directed
to give to the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer agent and paying agent for
the Outstanding Bonds, on or promptly after the Closing Date, written notice of the
refunding, and the Outstanding Bonds shall be defeased in accordance with the
provisions of this Resolution, the Original Indenture, the Outstanding Bonds, the bond
legislation authorizing the Outstanding Bonds and the Escrow Agreement.
The County Executive and the County Fiscal Officer shall sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the County and in their official capacities, the Escrow
Agreement, in form and substance consistent with the Resolution as shall be
conclusively evidenced by the execution and delivery thereof. The County Fiscal
Officer shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and for reimbursement
of expenses incurred pursuant to the Escrow Agreement, except to the extent paid by
the Original Purchasers in accordance with the Purchase Agreement, from the proceeds
of the Bonds to the extent available and otherwise from other funds lawfully available
and that are appropriated or shall be appropriated for that purpose.
There is created under the Escrow Agreement a trust fund designated the
“County of Cuyahoga Refunded 2010 Bonds Escrow Fund” that shall be held and
maintained by the Escrow Trustee in trust for the registered owners of the Outstanding
Bonds and is pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on the Outstanding
Bonds, all in accordance with the provisions of the Escrow Agreement. The County
Fiscal Officer is hereby authorized and directed to pay to the Escrow Trustee for deposit
in the Escrow Fund (i) any available funds on deposit in the Bond Retirement Fund for
the payment of debt charges on the Outstanding Bonds determined by the County Fiscal
Officer to be applied for that purpose, (ii) any funds available for such payment in the
Bond Reserve Fund established in connection with the issuance of the Outstanding
Bonds pursuant to the Original Indenture, and (iii) proceeds from the sale of the Bonds,
except any accrued interest and any proceeds to be used for the payment of any
expenses properly allocable to the refunding of the Outstanding Bonds or the issuance

Page 17 of 98

 of the Bonds as determined by the County Fiscal Officer, in the amount required,
together with the funds referred to in (i), to provide for the defeasance of the
Outstanding Bonds. The funds and proceeds so paid to the Escrow Trustee are
appropriated and shall be applied to pay principal of and interest on the Outstanding
Bonds, as provided in the Escrow Agreement.
The funds so deposited in the Escrow Fund shall be (a) held in cash to the extent
that they are not needed to make the investments hereinafter described and (b) invested
in direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed as to payment by, the United States
of America (within the meaning of Section 133.34(D) of the Revised Code) that mature
or are subject to redemption by and at the option of the holder, in amounts sufficient,
together with any uninvested cash in the Escrow Fund but without further investment
or reinvestment, for the payment of (i) interest when due on the Outstanding Bonds
following the date of issuance of the Bonds through and including the call redemption
of the Outstanding Bonds, and (ii) the principal of the Outstanding Bonds upon their
redemption by optional redemption as provided in the Escrow Agreement.
If U.S. Treasury Securities -- State and Local Government Series are to be
purchased for the Escrow Fund, the County Fiscal Officer, the Escrow Trustee and the
Financial Advisor, or any of them individually, are hereby specifically authorized to
file, on behalf of the County, subscriptions for the purchase and issuance of those U.S.
Treasury Securities - State and Local Government Series. If, in the judgment of the
County Fiscal Officer, an open-market purchase of obligations described in (b) in the
preceding paragraph for the Escrow Fund is in the best interest of and financially
advantageous to this County, the County Fiscal Officer or any other officer of the
County, on behalf of the County and in his official capacity, may purchase and deliver
such obligations, engage the services of a financial advisor, bidding agent or similar
entity for the purpose of facilitating the bidding, purchase and delivery of such
obligations for, and any related structuring of, the Escrow Fund, execute such
instruments as are deemed necessary to engage such services for such purpose, and
provide further for the payment of the cost of obtaining such services, except to the
extent paid by the Original Purchasers in accordance with the Purchase Agreement,
from the proceeds of the Bonds to the extent available and otherwise from any other
funds lawfully available and that are appropriated or shall be appropriated for that
purpose. Any actions heretofore taken by any of those officers in connection with the
foregoing are hereby ratified and approved.
This Council further authorizes and directs the County Fiscal Officer to retain,
on behalf of the County, the services of an independent public accounting firm to
perform a verification of the sufficiency of amounts in the Escrow Fund to cause the
Original Bonds to be deemed defeased as described in the Original Indenture.
Section 12. Bond Counsel. This Council hereby retains the legal services of
McDonald Hopkins LLC, as Bond Counsel to the County, in connection with the
authorization, sale, issuance and delivery of the Series 2020 Bonds, pursuant to the
authority in Ohio Revised Code Section 165.02. In providing those legal services, as
an independent contractor and in an attorney-client relationship, Bond Counsel shall

Page 18 of 98

 not exercise any administrative discretion on behalf of the County in the formulation
of public policy, expenditure of public funds, enforcement of laws, rules and
regulations of the State, or of the County, or of any other political subdivision of the
State, or the execution of public trusts.
Section 13. Council Determination. This Council determines that all acts and
conditions necessary to be performed by the County or to have been met precedent to
and in the issuing of the Series 2020 Bonds in order to make them legal, valid and
binding special obligations of the County have been performed and have been met, or
will at the time of delivery of the Series 2020 Bonds have been performed and have
been met, in regular and due form as required by law, as advised by Bond Counsel; and
that no statutory or constitutional limitation of indebtedness or taxation will have been
exceeded in the issuance of the Series 2020 Bonds.
Section 14. Severability. Each section of this Resolution and each subdivision or
paragraph of any section thereof is declared to be independent and the finding or
holding of any section or any subdivision or paragraph of any section thereof to be
invalid or void shall not be deemed or held to affect the validity of any other section,
subdivision or paragraph of this Resolution.
Section 15. Compliance with Open Meeting Law. This Board finds and
determines that all formal actions of this Board concerning and relating to the passage
of this Resolution were adopted in an open meeting of this Board and that all
deliberations of this Board and of any of its committees that resulted in such formal
action were in meetings open to the public in compliance with the law.
Section 16. Effective Date. It is necessary that this Resolution become immediately
effective for the usual daily operation of the County; the preservation of public peace,
health, or safety in the County; and any additional reasons set forth in the preamble.
Provided that this Resolution receives the affirmative vote of at least eight members of
Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon the earliest occurrence of
any of the following: (i) its approval by the County Executive through signature, (ii)
the expiration of the time during which it may be disapproved by the County Executive
under Section 3.10(6) of the Charter, or (iii) its passage by at least eight members of
Council after disapproval pursuant to Section 3.10(7) of the Charter. Otherwise, it shall
take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
On a motion by ___________, seconded by __________, the foregoing Resolution
was duly adopted.
Yeas:
Nays:

Page 19 of 98

 _________________________
County Council President

__________
Date

_________________________
County Executive

__________
Date

_________________________
Clerk of Council

__________
Date

First Reading/Referred to Committee: November 26, 2019
Committee(s) Assigned: Finance & Budgeting
Bond Counsel: McDonald Hopkins LLC
Journal ______
_______, 2019

Page 20 of 98

 [PROPOSED SUBSTITUTE]

County Council of Cuyahoga County, Ohio
Resolution No. R2019-0276
Sponsored by: County Executive
Budish/Fiscal Officer/Office of
Budget and Management

A Resolution authorizing the issuance and
sale of County of Cuyahoga, Ohio,
Economic
Development
Revenue
Refunding
Bonds,
Series
2020A
(Brownfield Redevelopment Fund Project),
in the maximum aggregate principal amount
of $11,000,000.00, in one or more series, to
refund a certain portion of the County’s
Economic Development Revenue Bonds,
Series 2010A, originally issued for the
purpose of providing moneys to pay costs of
“projects” within the meaning of Chapter
165, Ohio Revised Code; authorizing the
execution and delivery of a supplemental
trust indenture securing the payment of the
bonds; establishing funds of the County
related thereto; authorizing the execution
and delivery of a purchase agreement
relating to the sale of the bonds and related
agreements and certificates; authorizing and
approving related matters; and declaring the
necessity that this Resolution become
immediately effective.

WHEREAS, the County has outstanding its Economic Development Revenue
Bonds, Series 2010A (Brownfield Redevelopment Fund Project) (the “Outstanding
Bonds”); and
WHEREAS, this Council finds and determines that it is in the best interest of
the County to refund certain of the Outstanding Bonds as set forth in the Final Terms
Certificate authorized herein (the “Refunded Bonds”) and to take other actions as
necessary in connection therewith; and
WHEREAS, the Series 2020A Bonds shall be issued pursuant to the Trust
Indenture dated as of October 1, 1998 (the “Original Indenture”), as supplemented and
amended from time to time, including by a Third Supplemental Trust Indenture (the
“Third Supplemental Trust Indenture”), in form and substance consistent with the terms
of this Resolution as shall be conclusively evidenced by the execution thereof by the
officials authorized herein to execute such document.

Page 21 of 98

 WHEREAS, the County, as a county and political subdivision duly organized
and validly existing under the laws of the State of Ohio, is authorized and empowered
by virtue of the laws of the State of Ohio, including, without limitation, Section 13 of
Article VIII, Ohio Constitution, and Chapter 165, Ohio Revised Code and specifically
Section 165.07 thereof, (a) to issue its revenue bonds for the purpose of refunding
revenue bonds it previously issued to provide moneys to construct, improve, furnish or
equip a “project”, as defined in Section 165.01, Ohio Revised Code, located within the
boundaries of the County, when the refunding bonds will bear interest at a lower rate
than the bonds to be refunded, when the interest cost of the refunding bonds computed
to the absolute maturity will be less than the interest cost of the bonds to be refunded,
or when the average life of the refunding bonds will be greater than the remaining
average life of the bonds to be refunded, and (b) to adopt this Resolution and to enter
into the Third Supplemental Trust Indenture, and related agreements, all as defined and
provided herein, upon the terms and conditions provided herein and therein;
WHEREAS, it is necessary that this Resolution become immediately effective
in order that the usual daily operation of the County be continued and the public peace,
health or safety of the County be preserved and for the further reason that funds be
made available in a timely manner to achieve the benefits of refunding the Refunded
Bonds.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COUNTY COUNCIL OF
CUYAHOGA COUNTY, OHIO:
Section 1.
Definitions. In addition to the words and terms elsewhere defined in
this Resolution or in the Indenture, the following words and terms as used in this
Resolution shall have the meanings set forth below. Capitalized words and terms not
defined in this Section or elsewhere in this Resolution and used herein shall have the
meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
“Bond” or “Bonds” means the Series 2020A Bonds and Additional Bonds.
“Bond Counsel” means McDonald Hopkins LLC.
“Clerk” means the Clerk of this Council.
“Closing Date” means the date of original delivery of, and payment of the purchase
price for, the Series 2020A Bonds.
“Commercial Redevelopment Indenture” means the Trust Indenture dated as of
September 1, 2010 between the Issuer and the Commercial Redevelopment Trustee, as
amended and supplemented by the First Supplemental Trust Indenture authorized to be
dated February 1, 2020, as may be further amended and supplemented from time to
time.

Page 22 of 98

 “Commercial Redevelopment Revenues” means the Pledged Nontax Revenues as
defined in the Commercial Redevelopment Indenture.
“Commercial Redevelopment Trustee” means The Huntington National Bank, as
trustee under the Commercial Redevelopment Indenture.
“Continuing Disclosure Certificate” means the certificate authorized by Section 5(c)
hereof which, together with the agreements of the County set forth in that Section, shall
constitute the continuing disclosure agreement made by the County for the benefit of
holders and beneficial owners of the Series 2020A Bonds in accordance with the Rule.
“Council” means the Council of the County.
“County Executive” means the County Executive of the County or designee for the
purposes of signing documents.
“County Fiscal Officer” means the Fiscal Officer, including an acting or interim Fiscal
Officer of the County or designee for purposes of signing documents.
“Depository” means The Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust
company), New York, New York until a successor Depository shall have become such
pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Second Supplemental Trust Indenture and,
thereafter, Depository shall mean the successor Depository. Any Depository shall be a
securities depository that is a clearing agency under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its participants or otherwise, a Book Entry System to record
ownership of book entry interests in the Series 2020A Bonds or Bond Service Charges
thereon, and to effect transfers of book entry interests in the Series 2020A Bonds.
“Escrow Agreement” means the Escrow Agreement authorized by Section 11 hereof.
“Escrow Trustee” means the Escrow Trustee appointed in the Escrow Agreement.
“Final Terms Certificate” means the certificate authorized by Section 5, to be signed
by the County Fiscal Officer or County Executive, setting forth and determining those
terms or other matters pertaining to the Series 2020A Bonds and their issuance, sale
and delivery as this Resolution requires or authorizes to be set forth or determined
therein.
“Flats Indenture” means the Trust Indenture dated as of April 1, 2014 between the
County and the Flats Trustees.
“Flats Revenues” means the Project Revenues as defined in the Flats Indenture.
“Flats Trustee” means The Huntington National Bank, as trustee under the Flats
Indenture, and its successors and assigns.

Page 23 of 98

 “Gateway Indenture” means the Master Indenture dated as of September 15, 1992, as
amended and supplemented by the First Supplemental Trust Indenture and Second
Supplemental Trust Indenture, each dated as of September 15, 1992, the Third
Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated as of February 1, 1994, the Fourth Supplemental
Trust Indenture dated as of February 1, 2004, the Fifth Supplemental Trust Indenture
dated as of September 1, 2010, and the Sixth Supplemental Trust Indenture authorized
to be dated as of February 1, 2020, between the Issuer and the Gateway Trustee, as may
be further amended and supplemented from time to time.
“Gateway Revenues” means the Revenues as defined in the Gateway Indenture.
“Gateway Trustee” means The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as
trustee under the Gateway Indenture, and its successors and assigns.
“Indenture” means collectively the Original Indenture as amended and supplemented
by the First Supplemental Trust Indenture dated as of February 1, 2004, Second
Supplemental Trust Indenture dated as of September 1, 2010, and the Third
Supplemental Trust Indenture, and as may be further amended and supplemented from
time to time.
“Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements” means, as to the Series 2020A
Bonds, the deposits required to be made in respect of the mandatory redemption
requirements indicated in the Third Supplemental Trust Indenture.
“Medical Mart/Convention Center Indenture” means the Trust Indenture dated as of
December 1, 2010 between the County and the Medical Mart/Convention Center
Trustee.
“Medical Mart/Convention Center Revenues” means the Project Revenues as defined
in the Medical Mart/Convention Center Indenture.
“Medical Mart/Convention Center Trustee” means U.S. Bank National Association as
trustee under the Medical Mart/Convention Center Indenture, and its successors and
assigns.
“MetroHealth Payments” means the payments received by the County pursuant to that
certain Payment Agreement dated April 26, 2017 between the County and the Board of
Trustees of the MetroHealth System.
“Net Project Revenues” means all Project Revenues except those Project Revenues
which are required to be deposited in the Outside Loan Repayment Fund or the OWDA
Repayment Fund pursuant to Section 5.06 of the Indenture.
“Nontax Revenues” means all moneys of the County that are not money raised by
taxation, to the extent available for deposit in the Debt Retirement Fund, the Bond
Reserve Fund or the Pledge Fund as provided in the Indenture, including, but not

Page 24 of 98

 limited to the following: (a) charges for services and payments received in
reimbursement for services; (b) payments in lieu of taxes now or hereafter authorized
by State statute; (c) fines and forfeitures; (d) fees from properly imposed licenses and
permits; (e) investment earnings on any funds of the County that are credited to the
County’s General Fund; (f) proceeds from the sale of assets; (g) rental income; (h)
grants from the United States of America and the State of Ohio; (i) gifts and donations;
and (j) Net Project Revenues; provided that Nontax Revenues do not include the
Gateway Revenues, the Commercial Redevelopment Revenues, the Medical
Mart/Convention Center Revenues, the Westin Revenues, the Steelyard Revenues, the
MetroHealth Payments or the Flats Revenues, or Project Revenues which are required
to be deposited in the Outside Loan Repayment Fund or the OWDA Repayment Fund
pursuant to Section 5.06 of the Original Indenture.
“Original Purchaser” means such purchasers of the Series 2020A Bonds identified in
the Purchase Agreement for the Series 2020A Bonds.
“Pledged Nontax Revenues” means (i) all Net Project Revenues, (ii) proceeds of any
series of Bonds to be used to pay capitalized interest or otherwise to be available to pay
Bond Service Charges, (iii) Nontax Revenues in the Pledge Fund, (iv) all money in the
Special Funds and (v) all income and profit from the investment of the foregoing
money.
“Program” means the financing of Projects with money in the Redevelopment Fund,
as defined in the Indenture.
“Project” means a “project” as defined in the Act, including the acquisition and
redevelopment of underused or abandoned commercial or industrial property within
the County.
“Project Revenues” means the Project Revenues as defined in the Indenture.
“Purchase Agreement” means, with respect to the Series 2020A Bonds, one or more
Bond Purchase Agreements between the County and the Original Purchaser.
“Refunded Bonds” means those portions of the County’s outstanding Economic
Development Revenue Bonds, Series 2010A as set forth in the Final Terms Certificate.
“Rule” means Rule 15c2-12 prescribed by the SEC pursuant to the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as the same may be amended from time to time.
“SEC” means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
“Series 2020A Bonds” means the County’s Taxable Economic Development Revenue
Refunding Bonds, Series 2020A (Brownfield Redevelopment Fund Project), issued
pursuant to this Resolution and the Indenture.

Page 25 of 98

 “Steelyard Resolution” means Resolution No. 2013-0199 adopted by the Council on
September 24, 2013.
“Steelyard Revenues” means the Project Revenues as defined in the Steelyard
Resolution.
“Trustee” means The Huntington National Bank, a national banking association
organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America and duly
qualified to exercise corporate trust powers in the State of Ohio, until a successor
Trustee shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Indenture,
and thereafter “Trustee” shall mean the successor Trustee.
“Westin Resolution” means the Resolution No. R2013-0224 adopted by the Council
on December 10, 2013.
“Westin Revenues” means the Project Revenues as defined in the Westin Resolution.
The captions and headings in this Resolution are solely for convenience of reference
and do not define, limit or describe the scope or intent of any provisions or Sections of
this Resolution.
Section 2.
Determinations by this Council. This Council finds and determines
that (i) the issuance of the Series 2020A Bonds for the purpose of refunding the
Refunded Bonds to achieve economic savings is consistent with the requirements of
Section 165.07 of the Act; and (ii) the issuance of the Series 2020A Bonds for that
purpose is in furtherance of the purposes of the Act and will benefit the people of the
County and of the State. Consistent with Section 165.031, in the resolution authorizing
the Refunded Bonds, the County required that all wages paid to laborers and mechanics
employed on the project financed by the Refunded Bonds be paid at prevailing rates of
wages for the class of work called for, determined in accordance with the requirements
of Ohio Revised Code Chapter 4115.
Section 3.
Authorization of Series 2020A Bonds. It is necessary and proper and
in the best interest of the County to, and the County shall, issue the Series 2020A Bonds
in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $11,000,000 for the purpose of
providing funds to refund the Refunded Bonds, and to pay costs and expenses related
to the issuance of the Series 2020A Bonds. The final aggregate principal amount of the
Series 2020A Bonds will be determined in the Final Terms Certificate as provided in
Section 5 hereof. The Series 2020A Bonds shall be payable and secured as provided
herein.
The Series 2020A Bonds may be issued in one or more separate series, each bearing a
distinctive designation, provided that the Series 2020A Bonds of each series satisfy the
requirements of this Resolution and the Indenture. Separate series of Series 2020A
Bonds may be issued at the same or different times. The Series 2020A Bonds of each
series shall be designated as provided in the applicable Final Terms Certificate. A
separate Final Terms Certificate may be delivered for each series. In each case there

Page 26 of 98

 shall be included in the costs funded the costs of issuance of the Series 2020A Bonds
and any required deposits to the Special Funds.
Section 4.

Terms and Provisions of the Series 2020A Bonds.

(a)
Generally. The Series 2020A Bonds (i) shall be issued only in fully
registered form, substantially as set forth in the Third Supplemental Trust Indenture;
(ii) shall be exchangeable for Series 2020A Bonds of Authorized Denominations, as
provided in the Indenture; (iii) shall be numbered in such manner as determined by the
Trustee in order to distinguish each Series 2020A Bond from any other Series 2020A
Bond; and (iv) shall be in Authorized Denominations. The Series 2020A Bonds may
be subject to both optional and mandatory redemption in the amounts, upon the
conditions, and at the times and prices set forth in the Final Terms Certificate provided
for in Section 5 hereof and in the Third Supplemental Trust Indenture. The Series
2020A Bonds shall be dated the Closing Date, or such earlier date, not more than 60
days prior to the Closing Date, as may be established in the Final Terms Certificate.
The Series 2020A Bonds shall be designated “Taxable Economic Development
Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2020A (Brownfield Redevelopment Fund Project)”,
or such other designation as specified in the Final Terms Certificate.
(b)
Principal Amount Interest Rates and Payment Dates. The actual
principal amount of the Series 2020A Bonds shall be specified in the Final Terms
Certificate. The Series 2020A Bonds shall bear the rate or rates of interest per year
(computed on a 360-day per year basis), as shall be established, subject to subsection
(d) of this Section, in the Final Terms Certificate. Interest on the Series 2020A Bonds
shall be payable at such rate or rates on the Interest Payment Dates until the principal
amount has been paid or provided for. The Series 2020A Bonds shall bear interest from
the most recent date to which interest has been paid or provided for or, if no interest
has been paid or provided for, from their date.
(c)
Principal Payment Schedule. The Series 2020A Bonds shall mature or
be payable pursuant to Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements on the
Principal Payment Dates in principal amounts as shall be determined by the signing
officer, subject to subsection (d) of this Section, in the Final Terms Certificate,
consistent with that officer’s determination of the best interest of and financial
advantages to the County.
Consistent with the foregoing and in accordance with that officer’s
determination of the best interest of and financial advantages to the County, the County
Fiscal Officer or County Executive shall specify in the Final Terms Certificate (i) the
aggregate principal amount of Series 2020A Bonds to be issued as Serial Bonds, the
Principal Payment Dates on which those Series 2020A Bonds shall be stated to mature
and the principal amount thereof that shall be stated to mature on each such Principal
Payment Date, and (ii) the aggregate principal amount of Series 2020A Bonds to be
issued as Term Bonds, the Principal Payment Date or Dates on which those Series
2020A Bonds shall be stated to mature, the amount thereof that shall be stated to mature
on each such Principal Payment Date, the Principal Payment Date or Dates on which

Page 27 of 98

 Term Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption (Mandatory
Redemption Dates) and the amount thereof that shall be payable pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements on each Mandatory Redemption Date.
(d)
Conditions for Establishment of Interest Rates and Principal Payment
Dates and Amounts. The first Principal Payment Date shall occur on such date as set
forth in the Final Terms Certificate determined to be necessary and advisable to the
sale of the Series 2020A Bonds and in the best interests and financial advantages of the
County, and the final Principal Payment Date shall occur not later than the final
maturity date of the Refunded Bonds. The weighted average of the rate or rates of
interest per year to be borne by the Series 2020A Bonds, determined by taking into
account the respective principal amounts of the Series 2020A Bonds and terms to
maturity or mandatory sinking fund redemption of those principal amounts of Series
2020A Bonds, shall not exceed 6% per year.
(e)
Payment of Bond Service Charges. The Bond Service Charges on the
Series 2020A Bonds shall be payable in lawful money of the United States of America
without deduction for the services of the Trustee as paying agent. Principal of and any
premium on the Series 2020A Bonds shall be payable when due upon presentation and
surrender of the Series 2020A Bonds at the principal corporate trust office of the
Trustee. Interest on the Series 2020A Bonds shall be paid on each Interest Payment
Date by check or draft mailed to the person in whose name the Series 2020 Bond was
registered, and to that person’s address appearing, on the Bond Register at the close of
business on the Regular Record Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if and so long as
the Series 2020A Bonds are issued in a book entry system, principal of and interest and
any premium on the Series 2020A Bonds shall be payable in the manner provided in
any agreement entered into by the County Fiscal Officer or County Executive, in the
name and on behalf of the County, in connection with the book entry system.
(f)
Redemption Provisions. Except as otherwise provided in the Final
Terms Certificate consistent with the determination by the signing officer of the best
interest of and financial advantages to the County, the Series 2020A Bonds shall be
subject to redemption prior to stated maturity as follows:
(i)
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption of Term Bonds. If any of the
Series 2020A Bonds are issued as Term Bonds, the Term Bonds shall be subject
to mandatory redemption and be redeemed pursuant to mandatory sinking fund
requirements, at a redemption price of 100% of the amount redeemed, plus
accrued interest to the redemption date, on the applicable Mandatory
Redemption Dates and in the amounts payable on those Dates, as set forth in
the Final Terms Certificate and the Third Supplemental Trust Indenture.
(ii)
Optional Redemption. The Series 2020A Bonds shall also be subject to
redemption at the option of the County in accordance with the terms and
conditions set forth in the Final Terms Certificate and in the Third Supplemental
Trust Indenture if and as requested by the Original Purchaser; provided that the
redemption price for the earliest optional redemption date shall not be greater

Page 28 of 98

 than 102%; and provided further, however, that the Final Terms Certificate and
the Third Supplemental Trust Indenture may provide that the Series 2020A
Bonds are not optionally redeemable prior to maturity if it is determined in the
Final Terms Certificate that such optional redemption would adversely affect
the ability of the County to sell the Series 2020A Bonds at rates of interest
acceptable to the County based on current market conditions for taxable, fixedinterest rate obligations such as the Series 2020A Bonds.
If so designated in the Final Terms Certificate, the Series 2020A Bonds
shall also be subject to redemption at the option of the County prior to their
stated maturities at any time in whole or in part on any date, at a redemption
price that will make the holders of such Series 2020A Bonds whole for the
early redemption; if so, then the Final Terms Certificate shall specify the
method by which the “make whole” redemption price shall be determined and
shall condition the future exercise of a “make whole” redemption upon
approval by Council after receiving a certification of the cost of such
redemption from the Fiscal Officer.
If money for the redemption of all of the Series 2020A Bonds and
portions thereof to be redeemed, together with accrued interest thereon to the
redemption date, is held by the Trustee on the redemption date, so as to be
available therefor on that date and, if notice of redemption has been deposited
in the mail as provided in the Indenture, then from and after the redemption date
those Series 2020A Bonds and portions thereof called for redemption shall
cease to bear interest and no longer shall be considered to be outstanding. If that
money shall not be so available on the redemption date, or that notice shall not
have been deposited in the mail as aforesaid, those Series 2020A Bonds and
portions thereof shall continue to bear interest, until they are paid, at the same
rate as they would have borne had they not been called for redemption. All
money held by the Trustee for the redemption of particular Series 2020A Bonds
shall be held in trust for the account of the registered owners thereof and shall
be paid to them, respectively, upon presentation and surrender of those Series
2020A Bonds.
(g)
Signing. The Series 2020A Bonds shall be signed by the County
Executive and the County Fiscal Officer, provided that one or all of such signatures
may be a facsimile.
(h)
Book Entry System. The Series 2020A Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry system and, if and as long as a book entry system is
utilized: (i) the Series 2020A Bonds may be issued in the form of a single, fully
registered Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the
Depository or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the custody of the
Depository or its designated agent, which may be the Trustee; (ii) the beneficial owners
of Series 2020A Bonds in book entry form shall have no right to receive Series 2020A
Bonds in the form of physical securities or certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial
interests in Series 2020A Bonds in book entry form shall be shown by book entry on

Page 29 of 98

 the system maintained and operated by the Depository and its Participants, and transfers
of the ownership of beneficial interests shall be made only by book entry by the
Depository and its Participants; and (iv) the Series 2020A Bonds as such shall not be
transferable or exchangeable, except for transfer to another Depository or to another
nominee of a Depository, without further action by the County.
If any Depository determines not to continue to act as a Depository for the
Series 2020A Bonds for use in a book entry system, the County may attempt to
establish a securities depository/book entry system relationship with another qualified
Depository. If the County does not or is unable to do so, the County and the Trustee,
after the Trustee has made provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the
then Depository and any other arrangements deemed necessary, shall permit
withdrawal of the Series 2020A Bonds from the Depository, and shall cause Bond
certificates in registered form to be authenticated by the Trustee and delivered to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense (including costs of
printing) of those persons requesting such issuance.
The County Executive or County Fiscal Officer is hereby authorized and
directed, to the extent necessary or required, to enter into any agreements, in the name
and on behalf of the County, that that officer determines to be necessary in connection
with a book entry system for the Series 2020A Bonds, after determining that entering
into those agreements will not endanger the funds or securities of the County.
Section 5.
Sale of the Series 2020A Bonds; Official Statement; Continuing
Disclosure; Ratings, Credit Enhancement.
(a)
Sale of the Series 2020A Bonds. The Series 2020A Bonds are hereby
awarded to the Original Purchaser. The County Executive and County Fiscal Officer
shall continue to work with the Original Purchaser to determine the interest rates on
and the aggregate principal amount and principal maturities and other terms of the
Series 2020A Bonds in order to consummate the sale of the Series 2020A Bonds. The
County Executive or County Fiscal Officer is authorized to approve the final principal
amount of the Series 2020A Bonds (provided that such principal amount shall not
exceed the amount authorized in Section 3 hereof) and the interest rates on the Series
2020A Bonds, the dated date of the Series 2020A Bonds and a maturity schedule, all
as set forth in and subject to the limitations contained in Section 4 hereof, and to
determine the amount of the proceeds of the Series 2020A Bonds to be allocated to the
appropriate accounts and funds related to the Series 2020A Bonds. Such approval shall
be evidenced by the signing of the Final Terms Certificate by the County Executive or
County Fiscal Officer that shall set forth the principal amount of and interest rates on
the Series 2020A Bonds and the maturity schedule and the dated date of the Series
2020A Bonds together with any other matters required under this Resolution. The Final
Terms Certificate shall be incorporated in and form a part of this Resolution.
At the time of the signing of the Final Terms Certificate, the County Executive
or County Fiscal Officer is authorized to sell the Series 2020A Bonds to the Original
Purchaser at the purchase price established in the Final Terms Certificate, which

Page 30 of 98

 purchase price shall not be less than 97% of the aggregate original offering price to the
public, plus accrued interest, and in accordance with the terms and provisions of this
Resolution, including the Final Terms Certificate, and the Purchase Agreement. The
County Executive or County Fiscal Officer is further authorized to sign, acknowledge
and deliver, in the name of and on behalf of the County, a Purchase Agreement in form
and substance consistent with the terms of this Resolution as shall be conclusively
evidenced by the execution and delivery thereof. The County Executive or County
Fiscal Officer is authorized to make the necessary arrangements on behalf of the
County to establish the date, location, procedure and conditions for the delivery of the
Series 2020A Bonds to the Original Purchaser. That officer is further authorized to take
all actions necessary to effect due signing, authentication and delivery of the Series
2020A Bonds under the terms of this Resolution, the Purchase Agreement and the
Indenture.
It is determined that the parameters for the purchase price for and the terms of
the Series 2020A Bonds, and the sale thereof, all as provided for in this Resolution, are
in the best interest of and most advantageous for the County and in compliance with all
legal requirements, as advised by Bond Counsel.
(b)
Official Statement. The distribution of a preliminary Official Statement
of the County relating to the original issuance of the Series 2020A Bonds is authorized
and approved, and the County Executive or County Fiscal Officer and any other official
of the County are authorized and directed to complete and sign, on behalf of the County
and in their official capacities, a final Official Statement, with such modifications,
changes and supplements as are necessary or desirable for the purposes thereof as such
officers shall approve. Such officers are authorized to use and distribute, or authorize
the use and distribution of, the preliminary and the final Official Statement and any
supplements thereto as so signed in connection with the original issuance of the Series
2020A Bonds, and are authorized and directed to advise the Original Purchaser in
writing regarding limitations on the use of the Official Statement and any supplements
thereto for purposes of marketing or reoffering the Series 2020A Bonds as the acting
officer deems necessary or appropriate to protect the interests of the County. The
County Executive or County Fiscal Officer and any other official of the County are
authorized to sign and deliver, on behalf of the County and in their official capacities,
such certificates in connection with the accuracy of the preliminary and final Official
Statement and any supplements thereto as, in their judgment, may be necessary or
appropriate and to determine, and to certify or otherwise represent, when the official
statement is to be “deemed final” (except for permitted omissions) by the County as of
its date or is a final official statement for purposes of SEC Rule 15c2-12(b)(1), (3) and
(4).
(c)
Agreement to Provide Continuing Disclosure. If deemed necessary and
requested by the Original Purchaser, the County shall agree, as the only obligated
person with respect to the Series 2020A Bonds under the Rule, to provide or cause to
be provided such financial information and operating data, financial statements and
notices, in such manner, as may be required for purposes of paragraph (b)(5) of the
Rule. In order to describe and specify certain terms of the County’s continuing

Page 31 of 98

 disclosure agreement for that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement,
including provisions for enforcement, amendment and termination, the County
Executive or County Fiscal Officer is authorized to sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the County, the Continuing Disclosure Certificate in form and substance
consistent with the Resolution as shall be conclusively evidenced by the execution and
delivery of thereof. The agreement formed, collectively, by this paragraph and that
Certificate, shall be the County’s continuing disclosure agreement for purposes of the
Rule, and its performance shall be subject to the availability of funds and their annual
appropriation to meet costs the County would be required to incur to perform it.
The County Executive or County Fiscal Officer is further authorized and
directed to establish procedures in order to ensure compliance by the County with its
continuing disclosure agreement, including timely provision of information and
notices. Prior to making any filing in accordance with that agreement or providing
notice of the occurrence of any other events, the responsible County officer shall
consult with and obtain legal advice from, as appropriate, the Law Director and bond
or other qualified independent special counsel selected by the County. That County
officer, acting in the name and on behalf of the County, shall be entitled to rely upon
any such legal advice in determining whether a filing should be made.
(d)
Authorization for Application for Ratings or Credit Enhancement. If, in
the judgment of the County Executive or County Fiscal Officer, the filing of an
application for (i) a rating on the Series 2020A Bonds by one or more nationallyrecognized rating services or (ii) a policy of insurance or other credit enhancement
facility from a company or companies to better assure the payment of principal of and
interest on the Series 2020A Bonds is in the best interest of and financially
advantageous to this County, such determination shall be set forth in the Final Terms
Certificate, and the County Executive or County Fiscal Officer is authorized to prepare
and submit those applications, to provide to each such service or provider, such
information as may be required for the purpose, and to provide further for the payment
of the cost of obtaining each such rating, facility or policy, except to the extent paid by
the Original Purchaser, from the proceeds of the Series 2020A Bonds to the extent
available and otherwise from any other funds lawfully available and that are
appropriated or shall be appropriated for that purpose.
Section 6.
Application of Proceeds of the Series 2020A Bonds. The proceeds of
sale of the Series 2020A Bonds shall be allocated and deposited in such appropriate
fund or funds or accounts thereof as set forth in the Final Terms Certificate.
Section 7.
Security for the Bonds. The Series 2020A Bonds are special
obligations of the County, and the Bond Service Charges on the Series 2020A Bonds
are payable solely from the Nontax Revenues, and such payment is secured by a pledge
of and an assignment of the Nontax Revenues and the assignment of and grant of a
security interest in the Pledged Nontax Revenues as provided in this Resolution and in
the Indenture. The County hereby covenants and agrees that, as provided in the
Indenture, it shall appropriate in its annual appropriation measure for each Year, and
shall deposit in the Pledge Fund on or before January 15 of each Year, Nontax

Page 32 of 98

 Revenues in an amount sufficient to pay all Bond Service Charges due and payable in
the then current Year, less any amounts remaining in the Pledge Fund after all Bond
Service Charges for the prior Year have been paid. The County hereby further
covenants and agrees that in the event the amount in the Pledge Fund is not sufficient
to pay Bond Service Charges due and payable on the Bonds thirty (30) days prior to
any Payment Date, the County immediately shall make a supplemental appropriation
for, and shall deposit in, the Pledge Fund an amount sufficient to make up any such
deficiency.
The payments due hereunder and under the Bonds are payable solely from the
Nontax Revenues as defined in this Resolution, which Nontax Revenues are hereby
determined by this Council to be money that is not raised by taxation. The Series 2020A
Bonds do not and shall not represent or constitute a debt or pledge of the faith or credit
or taxing power of the County, and the owners of the Series 2020A Bonds have no right
to have taxes levied by the County for the payment of Bond Service Charges.
The County covenants that, so long as any of the Bonds are outstanding, it shall
not issue any Parity Obligations, unless, prior to adoption of the resolution authorizing
such Parity Obligations, the County shall have certified to the Trustee that the average
annual Nontax Revenues during the Coverage Computation Period, adjusted to reflect,
if necessary, changes in the rates or charges resulting in the Nontax Revenues, will
aggregate in amount not less than the Coverage Ratio of the highest amount of (a) Bond
Service Charges and (b) required payments on such proposed Parity Obligations and
any outstanding Parity Obligations due in any succeeding Year.
Nothing herein shall be construed as requiring the County to use or apply to the
payment of Bond Service Charges any funds or revenues from any source other than
Nontax Revenues. Nothing herein, however, shall be deemed to prohibit the County,
of its own volition, from using, to the extent that it is authorized by law to do so, any
other resources for the fulfillment of any of the terms, conditions or obligations of this
Resolution or of the Series 2020A Bonds.
Section 8.
Covenants of County. The County, by issuance of the Series 2020A
Bonds, covenants and agrees with the Holders of the Series 2020A Bonds that:
(a)
Use of Proceeds. The County will use the proceeds of the Series 2020A
Bonds for the purposes stated herein.
(b)
Segregation of Funds. The County will segregate, for accounting
purposes, the Funds established under the Indenture from all other revenues and funds
of the County.
(c)
Transcript of Proceedings. The Clerk of this Council, or other
appropriate officer of the County, will furnish to the Original Purchaser and to the
Trustee a true transcript of proceedings, certified by the Clerk of this Council or other
officer, of all proceedings had with reference to the issuance of the Series 2020A Bonds

Page 33 of 98

 together with such information from the County’s records as is necessary to determine
the regularity and validity of such issuance.
(d)
Further Acts. The County will, at any and all times, cause to be done all
such further acts and things and cause to be signed and delivered all such further
instruments as may be necessary to carry out the purpose of the Series 2020A Bonds
and any resolution authorizing the same or as may be required by the Act.
(e)
Obligations of the County. The County will observe and perform all its
agreements and obligations provided for by the Bonds, the Indenture or this Resolution.
All of the obligations under this Resolution and the Indenture are hereby established as
duties specifically enjoined by law and resulting from an office, trust or station upon
the County within the meaning of Section 2731.01 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Section 9.
Third Supplemental Trust Indenture. To secure the payment of the
Bond Service Charges on the Bonds as the same shall become due and payable and the
performance by the County of its obligations as provided in this Resolution, the Bonds
and the Indenture, the County Executive or County Fiscal Officer are authorized and
directed, for and in the name of the County and on its behalf, to sign and deliver to the
Trustee the Third Supplemental Trust Indenture in form and substance consistent with
the Resolution as shall be conclusively evidenced by the execution and delivery thereof.
Section 10. Other Documents and Actions. The County Executive, County Fiscal
Officer, the Clerk of this Council, the Director of Law, the Prosecuting Attorney and
other County officials, as appropriate, are further authorized to sign any notices,
certifications, financing statements, agreements (including an intercreditor agreement
or amendment thereto if necessary), documents, instruments and opinions, and to take
such other actions, as are desirable, advisable, necessary or appropriate to perfect the
assignments set forth in the Indenture and to consummate the transactions contemplated
by this Resolution, the Indenture and the Purchase Agreement.
Section 11. Refunding of Refunded Bonds. This Council determines that it is in
the best interest of the County to refund the Refunded Bonds and to establish an escrow
fund to pay principal of and interest on the Refunded Bonds through their first optional
redemption date, and to pay the redemption price of the Refunded Bonds on such
redemption date. The County Fiscal Officer is authorized and directed to give to the
authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer agent and paying agent for the Refunded
Bonds, on or promptly after the Closing Date, written notice of the refunding, and the
Refunded Bonds shall be defeased in accordance with the provisions of this Resolution,
the Indenture, the Outstanding Bonds, the bond legislation authorizing the Outstanding
Bonds and the Escrow Agreement.
The County Executive and the County Fiscal Officer shall sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the County and in their official capacities, the Escrow
Agreement, in form and substance consistent with the Resolution as shall be
conclusively evidenced by the execution and delivery thereof. The County Fiscal
Officer shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and for reimbursement

Page 34 of 98

 of expenses incurred pursuant to the Escrow Agreement, except to the extent paid by
the Original Purchasers in accordance with the Purchase Agreement, from the proceeds
of the Bonds to the extent available and otherwise from other funds lawfully available
and that are appropriated or shall be appropriated for that purpose.
There is created under the Escrow Agreement a trust fund designated the
“County of Cuyahoga Refunded 2010A Bonds Escrow Fund” that shall be held and
maintained by the Escrow Trustee in trust for the registered owners of the Refunded
Bonds and is pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on the Refunded
Bonds, all in accordance with the provisions of the Escrow Agreement. The County
Fiscal Officer is hereby authorized and directed to pay to the Escrow Trustee for deposit
in the Escrow Fund (i) any available funds on deposit in the Bond Retirement Fund for
the payment of debt charges on the Refunded Bonds determined by the County Fiscal
Officer to be applied for that purpose, (ii) any funds available for such payment in the
Bond Reserve Fund or other funds or accounts established in connection with the
issuance of the Refunded Bonds pursuant to the Indenture, and (iii) proceeds from the
sale of the Series 2020A Bonds, except any accrued interest and any proceeds to be
used for the payment of any expenses properly allocable to the refunding of the
Refunded Bonds or the issuance of the Series 2020A Bonds as determined by the
County Fiscal Officer, in the amount required, together with the funds referred to in (i)
to provide for the defeasance of the Refunded Bonds. The funds and proceeds so paid
to the Escrow Trustee are appropriated and shall be applied to pay principal of and
interest on the Refunded Bonds, as provided in the Escrow Agreement.
The funds so deposited in the Escrow Fund shall be (a) held in cash to the extent
that they are not needed to make the investments hereinafter described and (b) invested
in direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed as to payment by, the United States
of America (within the meaning of Section 133.34(D) of the Revised Code) that mature
or are subject to redemption by and at the option of the holder, in amounts sufficient,
together with any uninvested cash in the Escrow Fund but without further investment
or reinvestment, for the payment of (i) interest when due on the Refunded Bonds
following the date of issuance of the Series 2020A Bonds through and including their
call for redemption, and (ii) the principal of the Refunded Bonds upon their redemption
by optional redemption as provided in the Escrow Agreement.
If U.S. Treasury Securities -- State and Local Government Securities are to be
purchased for the Escrow Fund, the County Fiscal Officer, the Escrow Trustee and the
Financial Advisor, or any of them individually, are hereby specifically authorized to
file, on behalf of the County, subscriptions for the purchase and issuance of those U.S.
Treasury Securities - State and Local Government Securities. If, in the judgment of the
County Fiscal Officer, an open-market purchase of obligations described in (b) in the
preceding paragraph for the Escrow Fund is in the best interest of and financially
advantageous to this County, the County Fiscal Officer or any other officer of the
County, on behalf of the County and in his official capacity, may purchase and deliver
such obligations, engage the services of a financial advisor, bidding agent or similar
entity for the purpose of facilitating the bidding, purchase and delivery of such
obligations for, and any related structuring of, the Escrow Fund, execute such

Page 35 of 98

 instruments as are deemed necessary to engage such services for such purpose, and
provide further for the payment of the cost of obtaining such services, except to the
extent paid by the Original Purchasers in accordance with the Purchase Agreement,
from the proceeds of the Series 2020A Bonds to the extent available and otherwise
from any other funds lawfully available and that are appropriated or shall be
appropriated for that purpose. Any actions heretofore taken by any of those officers in
connection with the foregoing are hereby ratified and approved.
This Council further authorizes and directs the County Fiscal Officer to retain,
on behalf of the County, the services of an independent public accounting firm to
perform a verification of the sufficiency of amounts in the Escrow Fund to cause the
Refunded Bonds to be deemed defeased as described in the Indenture.
Section 12. Bond Counsel. This Council hereby retains the legal services of
McDonald Hopkins LLC, as Bond Counsel to the County, in connection with the
authorization, sale, issuance and delivery of the Series 2020A Bonds, pursuant to the
authority in Ohio Revised Code Section 165.02. In providing those legal services, as
an independent contractor and in an attorney-client relationship, Bond Counsel shall
not exercise any administrative discretion on behalf of the County in the formulation
of public policy, expenditure of public funds, enforcement of laws, rules and
regulations of the State, or of the County, or of any other political subdivision of the
State, or the execution of public trusts.

Page 36 of 98

 Section 13. Council Determination. This Council determines that all acts and
conditions necessary to be performed by the County or to have been met precedent to
and in the issuing of the Series 2020A Bonds in order to make them legal, valid and
binding special obligations of the County have been performed and have been met, or
will at the time of delivery of the Series 2020A Bonds have been performed and have
been met, in regular and due form as required by law, as advised by Bond Counsel; and
that no statutory or constitutional limitation of indebtedness or taxation will have been
exceeded in the issuance of the Series 2020A Bonds.
Section 14. Severability. Each section of this Resolution and each subdivision or
paragraph of any section thereof is declared to be independent and the finding or
holding of any section or any subdivision or paragraph of any section thereof to be
invalid or void shall not be deemed or held to affect the validity of any other section,
subdivision or paragraph of this Resolution.
Section 15. Compliance with Open Meeting Law. This Council finds and
determines that all formal actions of this Council concerning and relating to the passage
of this Resolution were adopted in an open meeting of this Council and that all
deliberations of this Council and of any of its committees that resulted in such formal
action were in meetings open to the public in compliance with the law.
Section 16. Effective Date. It is necessary that this Resolution become immediately
effective for the usual daily operation of the County; the preservation of public peace,
health, or safety in the County; and any additional reasons set forth in the preamble.
Provided that this Resolution receives the affirmative vote of at least eight members of
Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon the earliest occurrence of
any of the following: (i) its approval by the County Executive through signature, (ii)
the expiration of the time during which it may be disapproved by the County Executive
under Section 3.10(6) of the Charter, or (iii) its passage by at least eight members of
Council after disapproval pursuant to Section 3.10(7) of the Charter. Otherwise, it shall
take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
On a motion by ___________, seconded by __________, the foregoing Resolution
was duly adopted.
Yeas:
Nays:

_________________________
County Council President

__________
Date

_________________________

__________

Page 37 of 98

 County Executive

Date

_________________________
Clerk of Council

__________
Date

First Reading/Referred to Committee: November 26, 2019
Committee(s) Assigned: Finance & Budgeting
Bond Counsel: McDonald Hopkins LLC
Legislation Substituted in Committee: December 9, 2019
Journal ______
_______, 2019

Page 38 of 98

 County Council of Cuyahoga County, Ohio
Resolution No. R2019-0277
Sponsored by: County Executive
Budish/Fiscal Officer/Office of
Budget and Management

A Resolution authorizing the issuance and
sale of County of Cuyahoga, Ohio,
Economic Development Revenue Bonds,
Series 2010B (Commercial Redevelopment
Fund Project), in the maximum aggregate
principal amount of $7,500,000.00, in one or
more series, for the purpose of providing
moneys to pay costs of “projects” within the
meaning of Chapter 165, Ohio Revised
Code; authorizing the execution and delivery
of a trust indenture securing the payment of
the bonds; establishing funds of the county
related thereto; authorizing the execution
and delivery of a purchase agreement
relating to the sale of the bonds and related
agreements and certificates; authorizing and
approving related matters; and declaring the
necessity that this Resolution become
immediately effective.

WHEREAS, the County has outstanding its Economic Development Revenue
Bonds, Series 2010B (Commercial Redevelopment Fund Project) (the “Outstanding
Bonds”); and
WHEREAS, this Council finds and determines that it is in the best interest of
the County to refund certain of the Outstanding Bonds as set forth in the Final Terms
Certificate authorized herein (the “Refunded Bonds”) and to take other actions as
necessary in connection therewith; and
WHEREAS, the Series 2020 Bonds shall be issued pursuant to the Trust
Indenture dated as of August 1, 2010 (the “Original Indenture”), as supplemented and
amended from time to time, including by a First Supplemental Trust Indenture (the
“First Supplemental Indenture”), in form and substance consistent with the terms of
this Resolution as shall be conclusively evidenced by the execution thereof by the
officials authorized to execute such document herein.
WHEREAS, it is necessary that this Resolution become immediately effective
in order that the usual daily operation of the County be continued and the public peace,
health or safety of the County be preserved and for the further reason that funds be

Page 39 of 98

 made available in a timely manner to achieve the benefits of advance refunding the
Original Bonds.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COUNTY COUNCIL OF
CUYAHOGA COUNTY, OHIO:
Section 1.
Definitions. In addition to the words and terms elsewhere defined in
this Resolution or in the Indenture, the following words and terms as used in this
Resolution shall have the meanings set forth below. Capitalized words and terms not
defined in this Section or elsewhere in this Resolution and used herein shall have the
meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
“Bond” or “Bonds” means the Series 2020 Bonds and Additional Bonds.
“Bond Counsel” means McDonald Hopkins LLC.
“Brownfield Indenture” means the Trust Indenture dated as of October 1, 1998, as
amended by the First Supplemental Trust Indenture dated as of February 1, 2004, the
Second Supplemental Trust Indenture authorized dated as of August 1, 2010, between
the Issuer and the Brownfield Trustee and as further amended and supplemental from
time to time.
“Brownfield Revenues” means the Net Project Revenues as defined in the Brownfield
Indenture.
“Brownfield Trustee” means The Huntington National Bank, as trustee under the
Brownfield Indenture, and its successors and assigns.
“Clerk” means the Clerk of this Council.
“Closing Date” means the date of original delivery of, and payment of the purchase
price for, the Series 2020 Bonds.
“Continuing Disclosure Certificate” means the certificate authorized by Section 5(c)
hereof which, together with the agreements of the County set forth in that Section, shall
constitute the continuing disclosure agreement made by the County for the benefit of
holders and beneficial owners of the Series 2020 Bonds in accordance with the Rule.
“Council” means the Council of the County.
“County Executive” means the County Executive of the County or designee for the
purposes of signing documents.
“County Fiscal Officer” means the Fiscal Officer of the County or designee for
purposes of signing documents.

Page 40 of 98

 “Depository” means The Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust
company), New York, New York until a successor Depository shall have become such
pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Indenture and, thereafter, Depository shall
mean the successor Depository. Any Depository shall be a securities depository that is
a clearing agency under federal law operating and maintaining, with its participants or
otherwise, a Book Entry System to record ownership of book entry interests in the
Series 2020 Bonds or Bond Service Charges thereon, and to effect transfers of book
entry interests in the Series 2020 Bonds.
“Escrow Agreement” means the Escrow Agreement authorized by Section 11 hereof.
“Escrow Trustee” means the Escrow Trustee appointed in the Escrow Agreement.
“Final Terms Certificate” means the certificate authorized by Section 5, to be signed
by the County Executive or County Fiscal Officer setting forth and determining those
terms or other matters pertaining to the Series 2020 Bonds and their issuance, sale and
delivery as this Resolution requires or authorizes to be set forth or determined therein.
“Gateway Indenture” means the Master Indenture dated as of September 15, 1992, as
amended and supplemented by the First Supplemental Trust Indenture and Second
Supplemental Trust Indenture, each dated as of September 15, 1992, the Third
Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated as of February 1, 1994, the Fourth Supplemental
Indenture dated as of February 1, 2004, the Fifth Supplemental Indenture authorized
dated as of August 1, 2010, between the Issuer and the Gateway Trustee and, if
necessary, the Sixth Supplemental Indenture to be dated as of the date set forth in the
Final Terms Certificate, between the Issuer and the Gateway Trustee.
“Gateway Revenues” means the Revenues as defined in the Gateway Indenture.
“Gateway Trustee” means The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as
trustee under the Gateway Indenture, and its successors and assigns.
“Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements” means, as to the Series 2020
Bonds, the deposits required to be made in respect of the mandatory redemption
requirements indicated in the Indenture.
“Nontax Revenues” means all money of the County that is not money raised by
taxation, to the extent available for deposit in the Debt Retirement Fund, the Bond
Reserve Fund or the Pledge Fund as provided in the Indenture, including, but not
limited to the following: (a) charges for services and payments received in
reimbursement for services; (b) payments in lieu of taxes now or hereafter authorized
by State statute; (c) fines and forfeitures; (d) fees from properly imposed licenses and
permits; (e) investment earnings on any funds of the County that are credited to the
County's General Fund; (f) proceeds from the sale of assets; (g) rental income; (h)
grants from the United States of America and the State of Ohio; (i) gifts and donations;

Page 41 of 98

 and (j) Net Project Revenues; provided that Nontax Revenues do not include the
Gateway Revenues or Brownfield Revenues.
“Original Purchaser” means the purchasers of the Series 2020 Bonds identified in the
Purchase Agreement for the Series 2020 Bonds.
“Pledged Nontax Revenues” means (i) all Project Revenues, (ii) proceeds of any series
of Bends used to pay capitalized interest or otherwise to be available to pay Bond
Service Charges, (iii) Nontax Revenues in the Pledged Fund, (iv) all money in the
Special Funds and (v) all income and profit from the investment of the foregoing
money.
“Program” means the financing of Projects with money in the Redevelopment Fund.
“Project” means a “project” as defined in the Act, including the acquisition and
redevelopment of abandoned, idled or underutilized commercial, industrial and
institutional properties within the County.
“Project Revenues” means (a) the Loan Payments, (b) all amounts payable to the
Trustee with respect to the principal or redemption price of, or interest on, the Bonds
(i) by the Borrower as required under the Agreement and (ii) upon deposit in the Bond
Fund from the proceeds of the Bonds, (c) any moneys and investments in the Project
Fund, and (d) investment income with respect to the foregoing.
“Purchase Agreement” means, with respect to the Series 2020 Bonds, one or more
Bond Purchase Agreements between the County and the Original Purchaser.
“Refunded Bonds” means those portions of the County’s outstanding Economic
Development Revenue Bonds, Series 2010B (Commercial Redevelopment Fund
Project) as set forth in the Final Terms Certificate.
“Rule” means Rule 15c2-12 prescribed by the SEC pursuant to the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934.
“SEC” means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
“Series 2020 Bonds” means the County's Taxable Economic Development Revenue
Refunding Bonds, Series 2020B (Commercial Redevelopment Fund Project), issued
pursuant to this Resolution and the Indenture.
“Trustee” means the trustee identified in the Final Terms Certificate, which shall be a
national banking association or trust company duly qualified to exercise corporate trust
powers in the State of Ohio, until a successor Trustee shall have become such pursuant
to the applicable provisions of the Indenture, and thereafter “Trustee” shall mean the
successor Trustee.

Page 42 of 98

 The captions and headings in this Resolution are solely for convenience of reference
and do not define, limit or describe the scope or intent of any provisions or Sections of
this Resolution.
Section 2.
Determinations by the Council. This Council finds and determines
that (i) the issuance of the Series 2020 Bonds for the purpose of refunding the Refunded
Bonds is consistent with the requirements of Section 165.07 of the Act; and (ii) the
issuance of the Series 2020 Bonds for that purpose is in furtherance of the purposes of
the Act and will benefit the people of the County and of the State. Consistent with
Section 165.031, in the resolution authorizing the Refunded Bonds, the County
required that all wages paid to laborers and mechanics employed on the project
financed by the Refunded Bonds be paid at prevailing rates of wages for the class of
work called for, determined in accordance with the requirements of Ohio Revised Code
Chapter 4115.
Section 3.
Authorization of Series 2020 Bonds. It is necessary and proper and in
the best interest of the County to, and the County shall, issue the Series 2020 Bonds in
an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $7,500,000 for the purpose of providing
funds to refund the Refunded Bonds, and to pay costs and expenses related to the
issuance of the Series 2020 Bonds. The final aggregate principal amount of the Series
2020 Bonds will be determined in the Final Terms Certificate as provided in Section 5
hereof. The Series 2020 Bonds shall be payable and secured as provided herein.
The Series 2020 Bonds may be issued in one or more separate series, each
bearing a distinctive designation, provided that the Series 2020 Bonds of each series
satisfy the requirements of this Resolution and the Indenture. Separate series of Series
2020 Bonds may be issued at the same or different times. The Series 2020 Bonds of
each series shall be designated as provided in the applicable Final Terms Certificate.
A separate Final Terms Certificate may be delivered for each series. In each case there
shall be included in the costs funded the costs of issuance of the Series 2020 Bonds and
any required deposits to the Special Funds.
Section 4.

Terms and Provisions of the Series 2020 Bonds.

(a)
Generally. The Series 2020 Bonds (i) shall be issued only in fully
registered form, substantially as set forth in the Indenture; (ii) shall be exchangeable
for Series 2020 Bonds of Authorized Denominations, as provided in the Indenture; (iii)
shall be numbered in such manner as determined by the Trustee in order to distinguish
each Series 2020 Bond from any other Series 2020 Bond; and (iv) shall be in
Authorized Denominations. The Series 2020 Bonds may be subject to both optional
and mandatory redemption in the amounts, upon the conditions, and at the times and
prices set forth in the Final Terms Certificate provided for in Section 5 hereof and in
the Indenture. The Series 2020 Bonds shall be dated the Closing Date, or such earlier
date, not more than 60 days prior to the Closing Date, as may be established in the Final
Terms Certificate. The Series 2020 Bonds shall be designated “Taxable Economic
Development Revenue Bonds, Series 2020B (Commercial Redevelopment Fund
Project)”, or such other designation as specified in the Final Terms Certificate.

Page 43 of 98

 (b)
Interest Rates and Payment Dates. The Series 2020 Bonds shall bear the
rate or rates of interest per year (computed on a 360-day per year basis), as shall be
established, subject to subsection (d) of this Section, in the Final Terms Certificate.
Interest on the Series 2020 Bonds shall be payable at such rate or rates on the Interest
Payment Dates until the principal amount has been paid or provided for. The Series
2020 Bonds shall bear interest from the most recent date to which interest has been paid
or provided for or, if no interest has been paid or provided for, from their date.
(c)
Principal Payment Schedule. The Series 2020 Bonds shall mature or be
payable pursuant to Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements on the
Principal Payment Dates in principal amounts as shall be determined by the signing
officer, subject to subsection (d) of this Section, in the Final Terms Certificate,
consistent with that officer's determination of the best interest of and financial
advantages to the County.
Consistent with the foregoing and in accordance with that officer's
determination of the best interest of and financial advantages to the County, the County
Executive or County Fiscal Officer shall specify in the Final Terms Certificate (i) the
aggregate principal amount of Series 2020 Bonds to be issued as Serial Bonds, the
Principal Payment Dates on which those Series 2020 Bonds shall be stated to mature
and the principal amount thereof that shall be stated to mature on each such Principal
Payment Date, and (ii) the aggregate principal amount of Series 2020 Bonds to be
issued as Term Bonds, the Principal Payment Date or Dates on which those Series 2020
Bonds shall be stated to mature, the amount thereof that shall be stated to mature on
each such Principal Payment Date, the Principal Payment Date or Dates on which Term
Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption (Mandatory Redemption
Dates) and the amount thereof that shall be payable pursuant to Mandatory Sinking
Fund Redemption Requirements on each Mandatory Redemption Date.
(d)
Conditions for Establishment of Interest Rates and Principal Payment
Dates and Amounts. The first Principal Payment Date shall occur on such date as set
forth in the Final Terms Certificate determined to be necessary and advisable to the
sale of the Series 2020 Bonds and in the best interests and financial advantages of the
County, and the final Principal Payment Date shall occur not later than the final
maturity date of the Refunded Bonds. The weighted average of the rate or rates of
interest per year to be borne by the Series 2010 Bonds, determined by taking into
account the respective principal amounts of the Series 2010 Bonds and terms to
maturity or mandatory sinking fund redemption of those principal amounts of Series
2010 Bonds, shall not exceed 6% per year.
(e)
Payment of Bond Service Charges. The Bond Service Charges on the
Series 2020 Bonds shall be payable in lawful money of the United States of America
without deduction for the services of the Trustee as paying agent. Principal of and any
premium on the Series 2020 Bonds shall be payable when due upon presentation and
surrender of the Series 2020 Bonds at the principal corporate trust office of the Trustee.
Interest on the Series 2020 Bonds shall be paid on each Interest Payment Date by check
or draft mailed to the person in whose name the Series 2020 Bond was registered, and

Page 44 of 98

 to that person's address appearing, on the Bond Register at the close of business on the
Regular Record Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if and so long as the Series 2020
Bonds are issued in a book entry system, principal of and interest and any premium on
the Series 2020 Bonds shall be payable in the manner provided in any agreement
entered into by the County Executive or County Fiscal Officer, in the name and on
behalf of the County, in connection with the book entry system.
(f)
Redemption Provisions. Except as otherwise provided in the Final
Terms Certificate consistent with the determination by the signing officer of the best
interest of and financial advantages to the County, the Series 2010 Bonds shall be
subject to redemption prior to stated maturity as follows:
(i)
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption of Term Bonds. If any of
the Series 2020 Bonds are issued as Term Bonds, the Term Bonds shall
be subject to mandatory redemption and be redeemed pursuant to
mandatory sinking fund requirements, at a redemption price of 100% of
the amount redeemed, plus accrued interest to the redemption date, on
the applicable Mandatory Redemption Dates and in the amounts
payable on those Dates, as set forth in the Final Terms Certificate and
the Indenture.
(ii)
Optional Redemption. The Series 2020 Bonds shall also be
subject to redemption at the option of the County, if agreed to by the
Original Purchaser, in accordance with the terms and conditions set
forth in the Final Terms Certificate and in the Indenture; provided that
the redemption price for the earliest optional redemption date shall not
be greater than 102%; and provided further, however, that the Final
Terms Certificate and the Indenture may provide that the Series 2020
Bonds are not optionally redeemable prior to maturity if it is determined
in the Final Terms Certificate that such optional redemption would
adversely affect the ability of the County to sell the Series 2020 Bonds
at rates of interest acceptable to the County based on current market
conditions for taxable, fixed-interest rate obligations such as the Series
2020 Bonds. If so designated in the Final Terms Certificate, the Series
2020 Bonds shall also be subject to redemption at the option of the
County prior to their stated maturities at any time in whole or in part on
any date, at a redemption price that will make the holders of such Series
2020 Bonds whole for the early redemption; if so, then the Final Terms
Certificate shall specify the method by which the “make whole”
redemption price shall be determined, provided that the redemption
price shall not be greater than 110% without further authorization of the
Council.
If money for the redemption of all of the Series 2020 Bonds and portions thereof
to be redeemed, together with accrued interest thereon to the redemption date, is held
by the Trustee on the redemption date, so as to be available therefor on that date and,
if notice of redemption has been deposited in the mail as provided in the Indenture,

Page 45 of 98

 then from and after the redemption date those Series 2020 Bonds and portions thereof
called for redemption shall cease to bear interest and no longer shall be considered to
be outstanding. If that money shall not be so available on the redemption date, or that
notice shall not have been deposited in the mail as aforesaid, those Series 2020 Bonds
and portions thereof shall continue to bear interest, until they are paid, at the same rate
as they would have borne had they not been called for redemption. All money held by
the Trustee for the redemption of particular Series 2020 Bonds shall be held in trust for
the account of the registered owners thereof and shall be paid to them, respectively,
upon presentation and surrender of those Series 2020 Bonds.
(g)
Signing. The Series 202 0 Bonds shall be signed by the County
Executive or County Fiscal Officer, provided that one or all of such signatures may be
a facsimile.
(h)
Book Entry System. The Series 2020 Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry system and, if and as long as a book entry system is
utilized: (i) the Series 2020 Bonds may be issued in the form of a single, fully registered
Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the Depository or its
nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the custody of the Depository or its
designated agent, which may be the Trustee; (ii) the beneficial owners of Series 2020
Bonds in book entry form shall have no right to receive Series 2020 Bonds in the form
of physical securities or certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial interests in Series
2020 Bonds in book entry form shall be shown by book entry on the system maintained
and operated by the Depository and its Participants, and transfers of the ownership of
beneficial interests shall be made only by book entry by the Depository and its
Participants; and (iv) the Series 2020 Bonds as such shall not be transferable or
exchangeable, except for transfer to another Depository or to another nominee of a
Depository, without further action by the County.
If any Depository determines not to continue to act as a Depository for the
Series 2020 Bonds for use in a book entry system, the County may attempt to establish
a securities depository/book entry system relationship with another qualified
Depository. If the County does not or is unable to do so, the County and the Trustee,
after the Trustee has made provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the
then Depository and any other arrangements deemed necessary, shall permit
withdrawal of the Series 2020 Bonds from the Depository, and shall cause Bond
certificates in registered form to be authenticated by the Trustee and delivered to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense (including costs of
printing) of those persons requesting such issuance.
The County Executive or County Fiscal Officer is hereby authorized and
directed, to the extent necessary or required, to enter into any agreements, in the name
and on behalf of the County, that that officer determines to be necessary in connection
with a book entry system for the Series 2020 Bonds, after determining that entering
into those agreements will not endanger the funds or securities of the County.

Page 46 of 98

 Section 5.
Sale of the Series 2020 Bonds; Official Statement; Continuing
Disclosure; Ratings, Credit Enhancement.
(a)
Sale of the Series 2020 Bonds. The Series 2020 Bonds are hereby
awarded to the Original Purchaser. The County Executive and County Fiscal Officer
shall continue to work with the Original Purchaser to determine the interest rates on
and the aggregate principal amount and principal maturities and other terms of the
Series 2020 Bonds in order to consummate the sale of the Series 2020 Bonds. The
County Executive and County Fiscal Officer is authorized to approve the final principal
amount of the Series 2020 Bonds (provided that such principal amount shall not exceed
the amount authorized in Section 3 hereof) and the interest rates on the Series 2020
Bonds, the dated date of the Series 2020 Bonds and a maturity schedule, all as set forth
in and subject to the limitations contained in Section 4 hereof, and to determine the
amount of the proceeds of the Series 2020 Bonds to be allocated to the appropriate
accounts and funds related to the Series 2020 Bonds. Such approval shall be evidenced
by the signing of the Final Terms Certificate by the County Executive or County Fiscal
Officer that shall set forth the principal amount of and interest rates on the Series 2010
Bonds and the maturity schedule and the dated date of the Series 2020 Bonds together
with any other matters required under this Resolution. The Final Terms Certificate shall
be incorporated in and form a part of this Resolution.
At the time of the signing of the Final Terms Certificate, the County Executive
or County Fiscal Officer is authorized to sell the Series 2020 Bonds to the Original
Purchaser at the purchase price established in the Final Terms Certificate, which
purchase price shall not be less than 97% of the aggregate original offering price to the
public, plus accrued interest, and in accordance with the terms and provisions of this
Resolution, including the Final Terms Certificate, and the Purchase Agreement. The
County Executive or County Fiscal Officer is further authorized to sign, acknowledge
and deliver, in the name of and on behalf of the County, a Purchase Agreement in form
and substance consistent with the terms of this Resolution as shall be conclusively
evidenced by the execution and delivery thereof. The County Executive or County
Fiscal Officer is authorized to make the necessary arrangements on behalf of the
County to establish the date, location, procedure and conditions for the delivery of the
Series 2020 Bonds to the Original Purchaser. That officer is further authorized to take
all actions necessary to effect due signing, authentication and delivery of the Series
2020 Bonds under the terms of this Resolution, the Purchase Agreement and the
Indenture.
It is determined that the parameters for the purchase price for and the terms of
the Series 2020 Bonds, and the sale thereof, all as provided for in this Resolution, are
in the best interest of and most advantageous for the County and in compliance with all
legal requirements, as advised by Bond Counsel.
(b)
Official Statement. The distribution of a preliminary Official Statement
of the County relating to the original issuance of the Series 2020 Bonds is authorized
and approved, and the members of this Council, the County Executive or County Fiscal
Officer and any other official of the County are authorized and directed to complete

Page 47 of 98

 and sign, on behalf of the County and in their official capacities, a final Official
Statement, with such modifications, changes and supplements as are necessary or
desirable for the purposes thereof as such officers approve. Such officers are authorized
to use and distribute, or authorize the use and distribution of, the preliminary and the
final Official Statement and any supplements thereto as so signed in connection with
the original issuance of the Series 2020 Bonds, and are authorized and directed to
advise the Original Purchaser in writing regarding limitations on the use of the Official
Statement and any supplements thereto for purposes of marketing or reoffering the
Series 2020 Bonds as the officer acting deems necessary or appropriate to protect the
interests of the County. The County Executive or County Fiscal Officer and any other
official of the County are authorized to sign and deliver, on behalf of the County and
in their official capacities, such certificates in connection with the accuracy of the
preliminary and final Official Statement and any supplements thereto as, in their
judgment, may be necessary or appropriate and to determine, and to certify or otherwise
represent, when the official statement is to be “deemed final” (except for permitted
omissions) by the County as of its date or is a final official statement for purposes of
SEC Rule 15c2-12(b)(1), (3) and (4).
(c)
Agreement to Provide Continuing Disclosure. If deemed necessary and
requested by the Original Purchaser, the County shall agree, as the only obligated
person with respect to the Series 2020 Bonds under the Rule, to provide or cause to be
provided such financial information and operating data, financial statements and
notices, in such manner, as may be required for purposes of paragraph (b)(5) of the
Rule. In order to describe and specify certain terms of the County’s continuing
disclosure agreement for that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement,
including provisions for enforcement, amendment and termination, the County
Executive or County Fiscal Officer is authorized to sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the County, the Continuing Disclosure Certificate in form and substance
consistent with the Resolution as shall be conclusively evidenced by the execution and
delivery of thereof. The agreement formed, collectively, by this paragraph and that
Certificate, shall be the County’s continuing disclosure agreement for purposes of the
Rule, and its performance shall be subject to the availability of funds and their annual
appropriation to meet costs the County would be required to incur to perform it.
The County Executive or County Fiscal Officer is further authorized and
directed to establish procedures in order to ensure compliance by the County with its
continuing disclosure agreement, including timely provision of information and
notices. Prior to making any filing in accordance with that agreement or providing
notice of the occurrence of any other events, the responsible County officer shall
consult with and obtain legal advice from, as appropriate, the Prosecuting Attorney and
bond or other qualified independent special counsel selected by the County. That
County officer, acting in the name and on behalf of the County, shall be entitled to rely
upon any such legal advice in determining whether a filing should be made.
(d)
Authorization for Application for Ratings or Credit Enhancement.If, in
the judgment of the County Executive or County Fiscal Officer, the filing of an
application for (i) a rating on the Series 2020 Bonds by one or more nationally-

Page 48 of 98

 recognized rating services, (ii) a policy of insurance or other credit enhancement
facility from a company or companies to better assure the payment of principal of and
interest on the Series 2020 Bonds is in the best interest of and financially advantageous
to this County such determination shall be set forth in the Final Terms Certificate, and
the County Executive or County Fiscal Officer is authorized to prepare and submit
those applications, to provide to each such service or provider, such information as may
be required for the purpose, and to provide further for the payment of the cost of
obtaining each such rating, facility or policy, except to the extent paid by the Original
Purchaser, from the proceeds of the Series 2020 Bonds to the extent available and
otherwise from any other funds lawfully available and that are appropriated or shall be
appropriated for that purpose.
Section 6.
Application of Proceeds of the Series 2010 Bonds. The proceeds of
sale of the Series 2020 Bonds shall be allocated and deposited in such appropriate fund
or funds or accounts thereof as set forth in the Final Terms Certificate.
Section 7.
Security for the Bonds. The Series 2020 Bonds are special obligations
of the County, and the Bond Service Charges on the Series 2020 Bonds are payable
solely from the Nontax Revenues, and such payment is secured by a pledge of and an
assignment of the Nontax Revenues and the assignment of and grant of a security
interest in the Pledged Nontax Revenues as provided in this Resolution and in the
Indenture. The County hereby covenants and agrees that, as provided in the Indenture,
it shall appropriate in its annual appropriation measure for each Year, and shall deposit
in the Pledge Fund on or before January 15 of each Year, Nontax Revenues in an
amount sufficient to pay all Bond Service Charges due and payable in the then current
Year, less any amounts remaining in the Pledge Fund after all Bond Service Charges
for the prior Year have been paid. The County hereby further covenants and agrees that
in the event the amount in the Pledge Fund is not sufficient to pay Bond Service
Charges due and payable on the Bonds thirty (30) days prior to any Payment Date, the
County immediately shall make a supplemental appropriation for, and shall deposit in,
the Pledge Fund an amount sufficient to make up any such deficiency.
The payments due hereunder and under the Bonds are payable solely from the
Nontax Revenues as defined in this Resolution, which Nontax Revenues are hereby
determined by this Council to be money that is not raised by taxation. The Series 2020
Bonds do not and shall not represent or constitute a debt or pledge of the faith or credit
or taxing power of the County, and the owners of the Series 2020 Bonds have no right
to have taxes levied by the County for the payment of Bond Service Charges.
The County covenants that, so long as any of the Bonds are outstanding, it shall
not issue any Parity Obligations, unless, prior to adoption of the resolution authorizing
such Parity Obligations, the County shall have certified to the Trustee that the average
annual Nontax Revenues during the Coverage Computation Period, adjusted to reflect,
if necessary, changes in the rates or charges resulting in the Nontax Revenues, will
aggregate in amount not less than the Coverage Ratio of the highest amount of (a) Bond
Service Charges and (b) required payments on such proposed Parity Obligations and
any outstanding Parity Obligations due in any succeeding Year.

Page 49 of 98

 Nothing herein shall be construed as requiring the County to use or apply to the
payment of Bond Service Charges any funds or revenues from any source other than
Nontax Revenues. Nothing herein, however, shall be deemed to prohibit the County,
of its own volition, from using, to the extent that it is authorized by law to do so, any
other resources for the fulfillment of any of the terms, conditions or obligations of this
Resolution or of the Series 2020 Bonds.
Section 8.
Covenants of County. The County, by issuance of the Series 2020
Bonds, covenants and agrees with the Holders of the Series 2020 Bonds that:
(a)
Use of Proceeds. The County will use the proceeds of the Series 2020
Bonds for the purposes stated herein.
(b)
Segregation of Funds. The County will segregate, for accounting
purposes, the Funds established under the Indenture from all other revenues and funds
of the County.
(c)
Transcript of Proceedings. The Clerk of this Council, or other
appropriate officer of the County, will furnish to the Original Purchaser and to the
Trustee a true transcript of proceedings, certified by the Clerk of this Council or other
officer, of all proceedings had with reference to the issuance of the Series 2020 Bonds
together with such information from the County's records as is necessary to determine
the regularity and validity of such issuance.
(d)
Further Acts. The County will, at any and all times, cause to be done
all such further acts and things and cause to be signed and delivered all such further
instruments as may be necessary to carry out the purpose of the Series 2020 Bonds and
any resolution authorizing the same or as may be required by the Act.
(e)
Obligations of the County. The County will observe and perform all its
agreements and obligations provided for by the Bonds, the Indenture or this Resolution.
All of the obligations under this Resolution and the Indenture are hereby established as
duties specifically enjoined by law and resulting from an office, trust or station upon
the County within the meaning of Section 2731.01 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Section 9.
Indenture. To secure the payment of the Bond Service Charges on the
Bonds as the same shall become due and payable and the performance by the County
of its obligations as provided in this Resolution, the Bonds and the Indenture, the
County Executive and County Fiscal Officer, for and in the name of the County and on
its behalf, to sign and deliver to the Trustee the First Supplemental Indenture in form
and substance consistent with this Resolution as shall be conclusively evidenced by the
execution and delivery thereof.
Section 10. Other Documents and Actions. The County Executive, County Fiscal
Officer, Director of Law, Prosecuting Attorney, the Clerk of this Council, and other
County officials, as appropriate, are further authorized to sign any notices,

Page 50 of 98

 certifications, financing statements, documents, instruments and opinions, and to take
such other actions, as are desirable, advisable, necessary or appropriate to perfect the
assignments set forth in the Indenture and to consummate the transactions contemplated
by this Resolution, the Indenture and the Purchase Agreement.
Section 11. Refunding of Outstanding Bonds. This Council determines that it is
in the best interest of the County to refund the Outstanding Bonds and to establish an
escrow fund to pay principal of and interest on the Outstanding Bonds through their
first optional redemption date, and to pay the redemption price of the Outstanding
Bonds on such redemption date. The County Fiscal Officer is authorized and directed
to give to the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer agent and paying agent for
the Outstanding Bonds, on or promptly after the Closing Date, written notice of the
refunding, and the Outstanding Bonds shall be defeased in accordance with the
provisions of this Resolution, the Original Indenture, the Outstanding Bonds, the bond
legislation authorizing the Outstanding Bonds and the Escrow Agreement.
The County Executive and the County Fiscal Officer shall sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the County and in their official capacities, the Escrow
Agreement, in form and substance consistent with the Resolution as shall be
conclusively evidenced by the execution and delivery thereof. The County Fiscal
Officer shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and for reimbursement
of expenses incurred pursuant to the Escrow Agreement, except to the extent paid by
the Original Purchasers in accordance with the Purchase Agreement, from the proceeds
of the Bonds to the extent available and otherwise from other funds lawfully available
and that are appropriated or shall be appropriated for that purpose.
There is created under the Escrow Agreement a trust fund designated the
“County of Cuyahoga Refunded 2010 Bonds Escrow Fund” that shall be held and
maintained by the Escrow Trustee in trust for the registered owners of the Original
Bonds and is pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on the Original Bonds,
all in accordance with the provisions of the Escrow Agreement. The County Fiscal
Officer is hereby authorized and directed to pay to the Escrow Trustee for deposit in
the Escrow Fund (i) any available funds on deposit in the Bond Retirement Fund for
the payment of debt charges on the Outstanding Bonds determined by the County Fiscal
Officer to be applied for that purpose, (ii) any funds available for such payment in the
Bond Reserve Fund established in connection with the issuance of the Outstanding
Bonds pursuant to the Outstanding Bonds Indenture, and (iii) proceeds from the sale of
the Bonds, except any accrued interest and any proceeds to be used for the payment of
any expenses properly allocable to the refunding of the Outstanding Bonds or the
issuance of the Bonds as determined by the County Fiscal Officer, in the amount
required, together with the funds referred to in (i), to provide for the defeasance of the
Outstanding Bonds. The funds and proceeds so paid to the Escrow Trustee are
appropriated and shall be applied to pay principal of and interest on the Outstanding
Bonds, as provided in the Escrow Agreement.
The funds so deposited in the Escrow Fund shall be (a) held in cash to the extent
that they are not needed to make the investments hereinafter described and (b) invested

Page 51 of 98

 in direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed as to payment by, the United States
of America (within the meaning of Section 133.34(D) of the Revised Code) that mature
or are subject to redemption by and at the option of the holder, in amounts sufficient,
together with any uninvested cash in the Escrow Fund but without further investment
or reinvestment, for the payment of (i) interest when due on the Outstanding Bonds
following the date of issuance of the Bonds through and including their call for
redemption, and (ii) the principal of the Outstanding Bonds upon their redemption by
optional redemption, as provided in the Escrow Agreement.
If U.S. Treasury Securities -- State and Local Government Series are to be
purchased for the Escrow Fund, the County Fiscal Officer, the Escrow Trustee and the
Financial Advisor, or any of them individually, are hereby specifically authorized to
file, on behalf of the County, subscriptions for the purchase and issuance of those U.S.
Treasury Securities - State and Local Government Series. If, in the judgment of the
County Fiscal Officer, an open-market purchase of obligations described in (b) in the
preceding paragraph for the Escrow Fund is in the best interest of and financially
advantageous to this County, the County Fiscal Officer or any other officer of the
County, on behalf of the County and in his official capacity, may purchase and deliver
such obligations, engage the services of a financial advisor, bidding agent or similar
entity for the purpose of facilitating the bidding, purchase and delivery of such
obligations for, and any related structuring of, the Escrow Fund, execute such
instruments as are deemed necessary to engage such services for such purpose, and
provide further for the payment of the cost of obtaining such services, except to the
extent paid by the Original Purchasers in accordance with the Purchase Agreement,
from the proceeds of the Bonds to the extent available and otherwise from any other
funds lawfully available and that are appropriated or shall be appropriated for that
purpose. Any actions heretofore taken by any of those officers in connection with the
foregoing are hereby ratified and approved.
This Council further authorizes and directs the County Fiscal Officer to retain,
on behalf of the County, the services of an independent public accounting firm to
perform a verification of the sufficiency of amounts in the Escrow Fund to cause the
Original Bonds to be deemed defeased as described in the Original Indenture..
Section 12. Bond Counsel. This Council hereby retains the legal services of
McDonald Hopkins LLC., as Bond Counsel to the County, in connection with the
authorization, sale, issuance and delivery of the Series 2020 Bonds, pursuant to the
authority in Ohio Revised Code Section 165.02. In providing those legal services, as
an independent contractor and in an attorney-client relationship, Bond Counsel shall
not exercise any administrative discretion on behalf of the County in the formulation
of public policy, expenditure of public funds, enforcement of laws, rules and
regulations of the State, or of the County, or of any other political subdivision of the
State, or the execution of public trusts.
Section 13. Council Determination. This Council determines that all acts and
conditions necessary to be performed by the County or to have been met precedent to
and in the issuing of the Series 2020 Bonds in order to make them legal, valid and

Page 52 of 98

 binding special obligations of the County have been performed and have been met, or
will at the time of delivery of the Series 2020 Bonds have been performed and have
been met, in regular and due form as required by law, as advised by Bond Counsel; and
that no statutory or constitutional limitation of indebtedness or taxation will have been
exceeded in the issuance of the Series 2020 Bonds.
Section 14. Severability. Each section of this Resolution and each subdivision or
paragraph of any section thereof is declared to be independent and the finding or
holding of any section or any subdivision or paragraph of any section thereof to be
invalid or void shall not be deemed or held to affect the validity of any other section,
subdivision or paragraph of this Resolution.
Section 15. Compliance with Open Meeting Law. This Council finds and
determines that all formal actions of this Council concerning and relating to the passage
of this Resolution were adopted in an open meeting of this Council and that all
deliberations of this Council and of any of its committees that resulted in such formal
action were in meetings open to the public in compliance with the law.
Section 16. Effective Date. It is necessary that this Resolution become immediately
effective for the usual daily operation of the County; the preservation of public peace,
health, or safety in the County; and any additional reasons set forth in the preamble.
Provided that this Resolution receives the affirmative vote of at least eight members of
Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon the earliest occurrence of
any of the following: (i) its approval by the County Executive through signature, (ii)
the expiration of the time during which it may be disapproved by the County Executive
under Section 3.10(6) of the Charter, or (iii) its passage by at least eight members of
Council after disapproval pursuant to Section 3.10(7) of the Charter. Otherwise, it shall
take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.
On a motion by ___________, seconded by __________, the foregoing Resolution was
duly adopted.
Yeas:
Nays:

_________________________
County Council President

__________
Date

_________________________
County Executive

__________
Date

Page 53 of 98

 _________________________
Clerk of Council

First Reading/Referred to Committee: November 26, 2019
Committee(s) Assigned: Finance & Budgeting
Bond Counsel: McDonald Hopkins LLC
Journal ______
_______, 2019

Page 54 of 98

__________
Date

 [PROPOSED SUBSTITUTE]

County Council of Cuyahoga County, Ohio
Resolution No. R2019-0277
Sponsored by: County Executive
Budish/Fiscal Officer/Office of
Budget and Management

A Resolution authorizing the issuance and
sale of County of Cuyahoga, Ohio,
Economic Development Revenue Refunding
Bonds,
Series
2020B
(Commercial
Redevelopment Fund Project), in the
maximum aggregate principal amount of
$7,500,000.00, in one or more series, to
refund a certain portion of the County's
Economic Development Revenue Bonds,
Series 2010B, originally issued for the
purpose of providing moneys to pay costs of
“projects” within the meaning of Chapter
165, Ohio Revised Code; authorizing the
execution and delivery of a supplemental
trust indenture securing the payment of the
bonds; establishing funds of the County
related thereto; authorizing the execution
and delivery of a purchase agreement
relating to the sale of the bonds and related
agreements and certificates; authorizing and
approving related matters; and declaring the
necessity that this Resolution become
immediately effective.

WHEREAS, the County has outstanding its Economic Development Revenue
Bonds, Series 2010B (Commercial Redevelopment Fund Project) (the “Outstanding
Bonds”); and
WHEREAS, this Council finds and determines that it is in the best interest of
the County to refund certain of the Outstanding Bonds as set forth in the Final Terms
Certificate authorized herein (the “Refunded Bonds”) and to take other actions as
necessary in connection therewith; and
WHEREAS, the Series 2020B Bonds shall be issued pursuant to the Trust
Indenture dated as of September 1, 2010 (the “Original Indenture”), as supplemented
and amended from time to time, including by a First Supplemental Trust Indenture (the
“First Supplemental Trust Indenture”), in form and substance consistent with the terms
of this Resolution as shall be conclusively evidenced by the execution thereof by the
officials authorized herein to execute such document.

Page 55 of 98

 WHEREAS, the County, as a county and political subdivision duly organized
and validly existing under the laws of the State of Ohio, is authorized and empowered
by virtue of the laws of the State of Ohio, including, without limitation, Section 13 of
Article VIII, Ohio Constitution, and Chapter 165, Ohio Revised Code and specifically
Section 165.07 thereof, (a) to issue its revenue bonds for the purpose of refunding
revenue bonds it previously issued to provide moneys to construct, improve, furnish or
equip a “project”, as defined in Section 165.01, Ohio Revised Code, located within the
boundaries of the County, when the refunding bonds will bear interest at a lower rate
than the bonds to be refunded, when the interest cost of the refunding bonds computed
to the absolute maturity will be less than the interest cost of the bonds to be refunded,
or when the average life of the refunding bonds will be greater than the remaining
average life of the bonds to be refunded, and (b) to adopt this Resolution and to enter
into the Third Supplemental Trust Indenture, and related agreements, all as defined and
provided herein, upon the terms and conditions provided herein and therein;
WHEREAS, it is necessary that this Resolution become immediately effective
in order that the usual daily operation of the County be continued and the public peace,
health or safety of the County be preserved and for the further reason that funds be
made available in a timely manner to achieve the benefits of refunding the Refunded
Bonds.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COUNTY COUNCIL OF
CUYAHOGA COUNTY, OHIO:
Section 1.
Definitions. In addition to the words and terms elsewhere defined in
this Resolution or in the Indenture, the following words and terms as used in this
Resolution shall have the meanings set forth below. Capitalized words and terms not
defined in this Section or elsewhere in this Resolution and used herein shall have the
meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
“Bond” or “Bonds” means the Series 2020B Bonds and Additional Bonds.
“Bond Counsel” means McDonald Hopkins LLC.
“Brownfield Indenture” means the Trust Indenture dated as of October 1, 1998, as
amended by the First Supplemental Trust Indenture dated as of February 1, 2004, the
Second Supplemental Trust Indenture dated as of September 1, 2010, and the Third
Supplemental Trust Indenture authorized to be dated as of February 1, 2020, between
the Issuer and the Brownfield Trustee and as further amended and supplemental from
time to time.
“Brownfield Revenues” means the Net Project Revenues as defined in the Brownfield
Indenture.
“Brownfield Trustee” means The Huntington National Bank, as trustee under the
Brownfield Indenture, and its successors and assigns.

Page 56 of 98

 “Clerk” means the Clerk of this Council.
“Closing Date” means the date of original delivery of, and payment of the purchase
price for, the Series 2020B Bonds.
“Continuing Disclosure Certificate” means the certificate authorized by Section 5(c)
hereof which, together with the agreements of the County set forth in that Section, shall
constitute the continuing disclosure agreement made by the County for the benefit of
holders and beneficial owners of the Series 2020B Bonds in accordance with the Rule.
“Council” means the Council of the County.
“County Executive” means the County Executive of the County or designee for the
purposes of signing documents.
“County Fiscal Officer” means the Fiscal Officer including an acting or interim Fiscal
Officer of the County or designee for purposes of signing documents.
“Depository” means The Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust
company), New York, New York until a successor Depository shall have become such
pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Indenture and, thereafter, Depository shall
mean the successor Depository. Any Depository shall be a securities depository that is
a clearing agency under federal law operating and maintaining, with its participants or
otherwise, a Book Entry System to record ownership of book entry interests in the
Series 2020B Bonds or Bond Service Charges thereon, and to effect transfers of book
entry interests in the Series 2020B Bonds.
“Escrow Agreement” means the Escrow Agreement authorized by Section 11 hereof.
“Escrow Trustee” means the Escrow Trustee appointed in the Escrow Agreement.
“Final Terms Certificate” means the certificate authorized by Section 5, to be signed
by the County Executive or County Fiscal Officer setting forth and determining those
terms or other matters pertaining to the Series 2020B Bonds and their issuance, sale
and delivery as this Resolution requires or authorizes to be set forth or determined
therein.
“Flats Indenture” means the Trust Indenture dated as of April 1, 2014 between the
County and the Flats Trustees.
“Flats Revenues” means the Project Revenues as defined in the Flats Indenture.
“Flats Trustee” means The Huntington National Bank, as trustee under the Flats
Indenture, and its successors and assigns.

Page 57 of 98

 “Gateway Indenture” means the Master Indenture dated as of September 15, 1992, as
amended and supplemented by the First Supplemental Trust Indenture and Second
Supplemental Trust Indenture, each dated as of September 15, 1992, the Third
Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated as of February 1, 1994, the Fourth Supplemental
Trust Indenture dated as of February 1, 2004, the Fifth Supplemental Trust Indenture
authorized dated as of September 1, 2010, between the Issuer and the Gateway Trustee
and, the Sixth Supplemental Trust Indenture authorized to be dated as of February 1,
2020, between the Issuer and the Gateway Trustee.
“Gateway Revenues” means the Revenues as defined in the Gateway Indenture.
“Gateway Trustee” means The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as
trustee under the Gateway Indenture, and its successors and assigns.
“Indenture” means, collectively, the Original Indenture as amended and supplemented
by the First Supplemental Trust Indenture and as may be further amended and
supplemented from time to time.
“Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements” means, as to the Series 2020B
Bonds, the deposits required to be made in respect of the mandatory redemption
requirements indicated in the Indenture.
“Medical Mart/Convention Center Indenture” means the Trust Indenture dated as of
December 1, 2010 between the County and the Medical Mart/Convention Center
Trustee.
“Medical Mart/Convention Center Revenues” means the Project Revenues as defined
in the Medical Mart/Convention Center Indenture.
“Medical Mart/Convention Center Trustee” means U.S. Bank National Association as
trustee under the Medical Mart/Convention Center Indenture, and its successors and
assigns.
“MetroHealth Payments” means the payments received by the County pursuant to that
certain Payment Agreement dated April 26, 2017 between the County and the Board of
Trustees of the MetroHealth System.
“Nontax Revenues” means all moneys of the County that are not money raised by
taxation, to the extent available for deposit in the Debt Retirement Fund, the Bond
Reserve Fund or the Pledge Fund as provided in the Indenture, including, but not
limited to the following: (a) charges for services and payments received in
reimbursement for services; (b) payments in lieu of taxes now or hereafter authorized
by State statute; (c) fines and forfeitures; (d) fees from properly imposed licenses and
permits; (e) investment earnings on any funds of the County that are credited to the
County's General Fund; (f) proceeds from the sale of assets; (g) rental income; (h)
grants from the United States of America and the State of Ohio; (i) gifts and donations;

Page 58 of 98

 and (j) Project Revenues; provided that Nontax Revenues do not include the Gateway
Revenues, the Brownfield Revenues, the Medical Mart/Convention Center Revenues,
the Westin Revenues, the Steelyard Revenues, the MetroHealth Payments or the Flats
Revenues.
“Original Purchaser” means the purchasers of the Series 2020B Bonds identified in
the Purchase Agreement for the Series 2020B Bonds.
“Pledged Nontax Revenues” means (i) all Project Revenues, (ii) proceeds of any series
of Bonds used to pay capitalized interest or otherwise to be available to pay Bond
Service Charges, (iii) Nontax Revenues in the Pledge Fund, (iv) all money in the
Special Funds and (v) all income and profit from the investment of the foregoing
money.
“Program” means the financing of Projects with money in the Redevelopment Fund,
as defined in the Indenture.
“Project” means a “project” as defined in the Act, including the acquisition and
redevelopment of abandoned, idled or underutilized commercial, industrial and
institutional properties within the County.
“Project Revenues” means Project Revenues as defined in the Indenture.
“Purchase Agreement” means, with respect to the Series 2020B Bonds, one or more
Bond Purchase Agreements between the County and the Original Purchaser.
“Refunded Bonds” means those portions of the County’s outstanding Economic
Development Revenue Bonds, Series 2010B (Commercial Redevelopment Fund
Project) as set forth in the Final Terms Certificate.
“Rule” means Rule 15c2-12 prescribed by the SEC pursuant to the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as the same may be amended from time to time.
“SEC” means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
“Series 2020B Bonds” means the County's Taxable Economic Development Revenue
Refunding Bonds, Series 2020B (Commercial Redevelopment Fund Project), issued
pursuant to this Resolution and the Indenture.
“Steelyard Resolution” means Resolution No. 2013-0199 adopted by the Council on
September 24, 2013.
“Steelyard Revenues” means the Project Revenues as defined in the Steelyard
Resolution.

Page 59 of 98

 “Trustee” means the trustee identified in the Final Terms Certificate, which shall be a
national banking association or trust company duly qualified to exercise corporate trust
powers in the State of Ohio, until a successor Trustee shall have become such pursuant
to the applicable provisions of the Indenture, and thereafter “Trustee” shall mean the
successor Trustee.
“Westin Resolution” means the Resolution No. R2013-0224 adopted by the Council
on December 10, 2013.
“Westin Revenues” means the Project Revenues as defined in the Westin Resolution.
The captions and headings in this Resolution are solely for convenience of reference
and do not define, limit or describe the scope or intent of any provisions or Sections of
this Resolution.
Section 2.
Determinations by the Council. This Council finds and determines
that (i) the issuance of the Series 2020B Bonds for the purpose of refunding the
Refunded Bonds to achieve economic savings is consistent with the requirements of
Section 165.07 of the Act; and (ii) the issuance of the Series 2020B Bonds for that
purpose is in furtherance of the purposes of the Act and will benefit the people of the
County and of the State. Consistent with Section 165.031, in the resolution authorizing
the Refunded Bonds, the County required that all wages paid to laborers and mechanics
employed on the project financed by the Refunded Bonds be paid at prevailing rates of
wages for the class of work called for, determined in accordance with the requirements
of Ohio Revised Code Chapter 4115.
Section 3.
Authorization of Series 2020B Bonds. It is necessary and proper and
in the best interest of the County to, and the County shall, issue the Series 2020B Bonds
in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $7,500,000 for the purpose of providing
funds to refund the Refunded Bonds, and to pay costs and expenses related to the
issuance of the Series 2020B Bonds. The final aggregate principal amount of the Series
2020B Bonds will be determined in the Final Terms Certificate as provided in Section
5 hereof. The Series 2020B Bonds shall be payable and secured as provided herein.
The Series 2020B Bonds may be issued in one or more separate series, each
bearing a distinctive designation, provided that the Series 2020B Bonds of each series
satisfy the requirements of this Resolution and the Indenture. Separate series of Series
2020B Bonds may be issued at the same or different times. The Series 2020B Bonds
of each series shall be designated as provided in the applicable Final Terms Certificate.
A separate Final Terms Certificate may be delivered for each series. In each case there
shall be included in the costs funded the costs of issuance of the Series 2020B Bonds
and any required deposits to the Special Funds.

Page 60 of 98

 Section 4.

Terms and Provisions of the Series 2020B Bonds.

(a)
Generally. The Series 2020B Bonds (i) shall be issued only in fully
registered form, substantially as set forth in the Indenture; (ii) shall be exchangeable
for Series 2020B Bonds of Authorized Denominations, as provided in the Indenture;
(iii) shall be numbered in such manner as determined by the Trustee in order to
distinguish each Series 2020B Bond from any other Series 2020B Bond; and (iv) shall
be in Authorized Denominations. The Series 2020B Bonds may be subject to both
optional and mandatory redemption in the amounts, upon the conditions, and at the
times and prices set forth in the Final Terms Certificate provided for in Section 5 hereof
and in the Indenture. The Series 2020B Bonds shall be dated the Closing Date, or such
earlier date, not more than 60 days prior to the Closing Date, as may be established in
the Final Terms Certificate. The Series 2020B Bonds shall be designated “Taxable
Economic Development Revenue Bonds, Series 2020BB (Commercial Redevelopment
Fund Project)”, or such other designation as specified in the Final Terms Certificate.
(b)
Interest Rates and Payment Dates. The Series 2020B Bonds shall bear
the rate or rates of interest per year (computed on a 360-day per year basis), as shall be
established, subject to subsection (d) of this Section, in the Final Terms Certificate.
Interest on the Series 2020B Bonds shall be payable at such rate or rates on the Interest
Payment Dates until the principal amount has been paid or provided for. The Series
2020B Bonds shall bear interest from the most recent date to which interest has been
paid or provided for or, if no interest has been paid or provided for, from their date.
(c)
Principal Payment Schedule. The Series 2020B Bonds shall mature or
be payable pursuant to Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements on the
Principal Payment Dates in principal amounts as shall be determined by the signing
officer, subject to subsection (d) of this Section, in the Final Terms Certificate,
consistent with that officer's determination of the best interest of and financial
advantages to the County.
Consistent with the foregoing and in accordance with that officer's
determination of the best interest of and financial advantages to the County, the County
Executive or County Fiscal Officer shall specify in the Final Terms Certificate (i) the
aggregate principal amount of Series 2020B Bonds to be issued as Serial Bonds, the
Principal Payment Dates on which those Series 2020B Bonds shall be stated to mature
and the principal amount thereof that shall be stated to mature on each such Principal
Payment Date, and (ii) the aggregate principal amount of Series 2020B Bonds to be
issued as Term Bonds, the Principal Payment Date or Dates on which those Series
2020B Bonds shall be stated to mature, the amount thereof that shall be stated to mature
on each such Principal Payment Date, the Principal Payment Date or Dates on which
Term Bonds shall be subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption (Mandatory
Redemption Dates) and the amount thereof that shall be payable pursuant to Mandatory
Sinking Fund Redemption Requirements on each Mandatory Redemption Date.
(d)
Conditions for Establishment of Interest Rates and Principal Payment
Dates and Amounts. The first Principal Payment Date shall occur on such date as set

Page 61 of 98

 forth in the Final Terms Certificate determined to be necessary and advisable to the
sale of the Series 2020B Bonds and in the best interests and financial advantages of the
County, and the final Principal Payment Date shall occur not later than the final
maturity date of the Refunded Bonds. The weighted average of the rate or rates of
interest per year to be borne by the Series 2020B Bonds, determined by taking into
account the respective principal amounts of the Series 2020B Bonds and terms to
maturity or mandatory sinking fund redemption of those principal amounts of Series
2020B Bonds, shall not exceed 6% per year.
(e)
Payment of Bond Service Charges. The Bond Service Charges on the
Series 2020B Bonds shall be payable in lawful money of the United States of America
without deduction for the services of the Trustee as paying agent. Principal of and any
premium on the Series 2020B Bonds shall be payable when due upon presentation and
surrender of the Series 2020B Bonds at the principal corporate trust office of the
Trustee. Interest on the Series 2020B Bonds shall be paid on each Interest Payment
Date by check or draft mailed to the person in whose name the Series 2020B Bond was
registered, and to that person's address appearing, on the Bond Register at the close of
business on the Regular Record Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if and so long as
the Series 2020B Bonds are issued in a book entry system, principal of and interest and
any premium on the Series 2020B Bonds shall be payable in the manner provided in
any agreement entered into by the County Executive or County Fiscal Officer, in the
name and on behalf of the County, in connection with the book entry system.
(f)
Redemption Provisions. Except as otherwise provided in the Final
Terms Certificate consistent with the determination by the signing officer of the best
interest of and financial advantages to the County, the Series 2020B Bonds shall be
subject to redemption prior to stated maturity as follows:
(i)
Mandatory Sinking Fund Redemption of Term Bonds. If any of
the Series 2020B Bonds are issued as Term Bonds, the Term Bonds shall
be subject to mandatory redemption and be redeemed pursuant to
mandatory sinking fund requirements, at a redemption price of 100% of
the amount redeemed, plus accrued interest to the redemption date, on
the applicable Mandatory Redemption Dates and in the amounts
payable on those Dates, as set forth in the Final Terms Certificate and
the Indenture.
(ii)
Optional Redemption. The Series 2020B Bonds shall also be
subject to redemption at the option of the County, if agreed to by the
Original Purchaser, in accordance with the terms and conditions set
forth in the Final Terms Certificate and in the Indenture; provided that
the redemption price for the earliest optional redemption date shall not
be greater than 102%; and provided further, however, that the Final
Terms Certificate and the Indenture may provide that the Series 2020B
Bonds are not optionally redeemable prior to maturity if it is determined
in the Final Terms Certificate that such optional redemption would
adversely affect the ability of the County to sell the Series 2020B Bonds

Page 62 of 98

 at rates of interest acceptable to the County based on current market
conditions for taxable, fixed-interest rate obligations such as the Series
2020B Bonds. If so designated in the Final Terms Certificate, the Series
2020B Bonds shall also be subject to redemption at the option of the
County prior to their stated maturities at any time in whole or in part on
any date, at a redemption price that will make the holders of such Series
2020B Bonds whole for the early redemption; if so, then the Final Terms
Certificate shall specify the method by which the “make whole”
redemption price shall be determined and shall condition the future
exercise of a “make whole” redemption upon approval by Council after
receiving a certification of the cost of such redemption from the Fiscal
Officer.
If money for the redemption of all of the Series 2020B Bonds and portions
thereof to be redeemed, together with accrued interest thereon to the redemption date,
is held by the Trustee on the redemption date, so as to be available therefor on that date
and, if notice of redemption has been deposited in the mail as provided in the Indenture,
then from and after the redemption date those Series 2020B Bonds and portions thereof
called for redemption shall cease to bear interest and no longer shall be considered to
be outstanding. If that money shall not be so available on the redemption date, or that
notice shall not have been deposited in the mail as aforesaid, those Series 2020B Bonds
and portions thereof shall continue to bear interest, until they are paid, at the same rate
as they would have borne had they not been called for redemption. All money held by
the Trustee for the redemption of particular Series 2020B Bonds shall be held in trust
for the account of the registered owners thereof and shall be paid to them, respectively,
upon presentation and surrender of those Series 2020B Bonds.
(g)
Signing. The Series 2020B Bonds shall be signed by the County
Executive and County Fiscal Officer, provided that one or all of such signatures may
be a facsimile.
(h)
Book Entry System. The Series 2020B Bonds may be issued to a
Depository for use in a book entry system and, if and as long as a book entry system is
utilized: (i) the Series 2020B Bonds may be issued in the form of a single, fully
registered Bond representing each maturity and registered in the name of the
Depository or its nominee, as registered owner, and immobilized in the custody of the
Depository or its designated agent, which may be the Trustee; (ii) the beneficial owners
of Series 2020B Bonds in book entry form shall have no right to receive Series 2020B
Bonds in the form of physical securities or certificates; (iii) ownership of beneficial
interests in Series 2020B Bonds in book entry form shall be shown by book entry on
the system maintained and operated by the Depository and its Participants, and transfers
of the ownership of beneficial interests shall be made only by book entry by the
Depository and its Participants; and (iv) the Series 2020B Bonds as such shall not be
transferable or exchangeable, except for transfer to another Depository or to another
nominee of a Depository, without further action by the County.

Page 63 of 98

 If any Depository determines not to continue to act as a Depository for the
Series 2020B Bonds for use in a book entry system, the County may attempt to establish
a securities depository/book entry system relationship with another qualified
Depository. If the County does not or is unable to do so, the County and the Trustee,
after the Trustee has made provision for notification of the beneficial owners by the
then Depository and any other arrangements deemed necessary, shall permit
withdrawal of the Series 2020B Bonds from the Depository, and shall cause Bond
certificates in registered form to be authenticated by the Trustee and delivered to the
assigns of the Depository or its nominee, all at the cost and expense (including costs of
printing) of those persons requesting such issuance.
The County Executive or County Fiscal Officer is hereby authorized and
directed, to the extent necessary or required, to enter into any agreements, in the name
and on behalf of the County, that that officer determines to be necessary in connection
with a book entry system for the Series 2020B Bonds, after determining that entering
into those agreements will not endanger the funds or securities of the County.
Section 5.
Sale of the Series 2020B Bonds; Official Statement; Continuing
Disclosure; Ratings, Credit Enhancement.
(a)
Sale of the Series 2020B Bonds. The Series 2020B Bonds are hereby
awarded to the Original Purchaser. The County Executive and County Fiscal Officer
shall continue to work with the Original Purchaser to determine the interest rates on
and the aggregate principal amount and principal maturities and other terms of the
Series 2020B Bonds in order to consummate the sale of the Series 2020B Bonds. The
County Executive and County Fiscal Officer are authorized to approve the final
principal amount of the Series 2020B Bonds (provided that such principal amount shall
not exceed the amount authorized in Section 3 hereof) and the interest rates on the
Series 2020B Bonds, the dated date of the Series 2020B Bonds and a maturity schedule,
all as set forth in and subject to the limitations contained in Section 4 hereof, and to
determine the amount of the proceeds of the Series 2020B Bonds to be allocated to the
appropriate accounts and funds related to the Series 2020B Bonds. Such approval shall
be evidenced by the signing of the Final Terms Certificate by the County Executive or
County Fiscal Officer that shall set forth the principal amount of and interest rates on
the Series 2020B Bonds and the maturity schedule and the dated date of the Series
2020B Bonds together with any other matters required under this Resolution. The Final
Terms Certificate shall be incorporated in and form a part of this Resolution.
At the time of the signing of the Final Terms Certificate, the County Executive
or County Fiscal Officer is authorized to sell the Series 2020B Bonds to the Original
Purchaser at the purchase price established in the Final Terms Certificate, which
purchase price shall not be less than 97% of the aggregate original offering price to the
public, plus accrued interest, and in accordance with the terms and provisions of this
Resolution, including the Final Terms Certificate, and the Purchase Agreement. The
County Executive or County Fiscal Officer is further authorized to sign, acknowledge
and deliver, in the name of and on behalf of the County, a Purchase Agreement in form
and substance consistent with the terms of this Resolution as shall be conclusively

Page 64 of 98

 evidenced by the execution and delivery thereof. The County Executive or County
Fiscal Officer is authorized to make the necessary arrangements on behalf of the
County to establish the date, location, procedure and conditions for the delivery of the
Series 2020B Bonds to the Original Purchaser. That officer is further authorized to take
all actions necessary to effect due signing, authentication and delivery of the Series
2020B Bonds under the terms of this Resolution, the Purchase Agreement and the
Indenture.
It is determined that the parameters for the purchase price for and the terms of
the Series 2020B Bonds, and the sale thereof, all as provided for in this Resolution, are
in the best interest of and most advantageous for the County and in compliance with all
legal requirements, as advised by Bond Counsel.
(b)
Official Statement. The distribution of a preliminary Official Statement
of the County relating to the original issuance of the Series 2020B Bonds is authorized
and approved, and the members of this Council, the County Executive or County Fiscal
Officer and any other official of the County are authorized and directed to complete
and sign, on behalf of the County and in their official capacities, a final Official
Statement, with such modifications, changes and supplements as are necessary or
desirable for the purposes thereof as such officers approve. Such officers are authorized
to use and distribute, or authorize the use and distribution of, the preliminary and the
final Official Statement and any supplements thereto as so signed in connection with
the original issuance of the Series 2020B Bonds, and are authorized and directed to
advise the Original Purchaser in writing regarding limitations on the use of the Official
Statement and any supplements thereto for purposes of marketing or reoffering the
Series 2020B Bonds as the acting officer deems necessary or appropriate to protect the
interests of the County. The County Executive or County Fiscal Officer and any other
official of the County are authorized to sign and deliver, on behalf of the County and
in their official capacities, such certificates in connection with the accuracy of the
preliminary and final Official Statement and any supplements thereto as, in their
judgment, may be necessary or appropriate and to determine, and to certify or otherwise
represent, when the official statement is to be “deemed final” (except for permitted
omissions) by the County as of its date or is a final official statement for purposes of
SEC Rule 15c2-12(b)(1), (3) and (4).
(c)
Agreement to Provide Continuing Disclosure. If deemed necessary and
requested by the Original Purchaser, the County shall agree, as the only obligated
person with respect to the Series 2020B Bonds under the Rule, to provide or cause to
be provided such financial information and operating data, financial statements and
notices, in such manner, as may be required for purposes of paragraph (b)(5) of the
Rule. In order to describe and specify certain terms of the County’s continuing
disclosure agreement for that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement,
including provisions for enforcement, amendment and termination, the County
Executive or County Fiscal Officer is authorized to sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the County, the Continuing Disclosure Certificate in form and substance
consistent with the Resolution as shall be conclusively evidenced by the execution and
delivery of thereof. The agreement formed, collectively, by this paragraph and that

Page 65 of 98

 Certificate, shall be the County’s continuing disclosure agreement for purposes of the
Rule, and its performance shall be subject to the availability of funds and their annual
appropriation to meet costs the County would be required to incur to perform it.
The County Executive or County Fiscal Officer is further authorized and
directed to establish procedures in order to ensure compliance by the County with its
continuing disclosure agreement, including timely provision of information and
notices. Prior to making any filing in accordance with that agreement or providing
notice of the occurrence of any other events, the responsible County officer shall
consult with and obtain legal advice from, as appropriate, the Law Director and bond
or other qualified independent special counsel selected by the County. That County
officer, acting in the name and on behalf of the County, shall be entitled to rely upon
any such legal advice in determining whether a filing should be made.
(d)
Authorization for Application for Ratings or Credit Enhancement.If, in
the judgment of the County Executive or County Fiscal Officer, the filing of an
application for (i) a rating on the Series 2020B Bonds by one or more nationallyrecognized rating services, (ii) a policy of insurance or other credit enhancement
facility from a company or companies to better assure the payment of principal of and
interest on the Series 2020B Bonds is in the best interest of and financially
advantageous to this County such determination shall be set forth in the Final Terms
Certificate, and the County Executive or County Fiscal Officer is authorized to prepare
and submit those applications, to provide to each such service or provider, such
information as may be required for the purpose, and to provide further for the payment
of the cost of obtaining each such rating, facility or policy, except to the extent paid by
the Original Purchaser, from the proceeds of the Series 2020B Bonds to the extent
available and otherwise from any other funds lawfully available and that are
appropriated or shall be appropriated for that purpose.
Section 6.
Application of Proceeds of the Series 2020B Bonds. The proceeds of
sale of the Series 2020B Bonds shall be allocated and deposited in such appropriate
fund or funds or accounts thereof as set forth in the Final Terms Certificate.
Section 7.
Security for the Bonds. The Series 2020B Bonds are special
obligations of the County, and the Bond Service Charges on the Series 2020B Bonds
are payable solely from the Nontax Revenues, and such payment is secured by a pledge
of and an assignment of the Nontax Revenues and the assignment of and grant of a
security interest in the Pledged Nontax Revenues as provided in this Resolution and in
the Indenture. The County hereby covenants and agrees that, as provided in the
Indenture, it shall appropriate in its annual appropriation measure for each Year, and
shall deposit in the Pledge Fund on or before January 15 of each Year, Nontax
Revenues in an amount sufficient to pay all Bond Service Charges due and payable in
the then current Year, less any amounts remaining in the Pledge Fund after all Bond
Service Charges for the prior Year have been paid. The County hereby further
covenants and agrees that in the event the amount in the Pledge Fund is not sufficient
to pay Bond Service Charges due and payable on the Bonds thirty (30) days prior to
any Payment Date, the County immediately shall make a supplemental appropriation

Page 66 of 98

 for, and shall deposit in, the Pledge Fund an amount sufficient to make up any such
deficiency.
The payments due hereunder and under the Bonds are payable solely from the
Nontax Revenues as defined in this Resolution, which Nontax Revenues are hereby
determined by this Council to be money that is not raised by taxation. The Series 2020B
Bonds do not and shall not represent or constitute a debt or pledge of the faith or credit
or taxing power of the County, and the owners of the Series 2020B Bonds have no right
to have taxes levied by the County for the payment of Bond Service Charges.
The County covenants that, so long as any of the Bonds are outstanding, it shall
not issue any Parity Obligations, unless, prior to adoption of the resolution authorizing
such Parity Obligations, the County shall have certified to the Trustee that the average
annual Nontax Revenues during the Coverage Computation Period, adjusted to reflect,
if necessary, changes in the rates or charges resulting in the Nontax Revenues, will
aggregate in amount not less than the Coverage Ratio of the highest amount of (a) Bond
Service Charges and (b) required payments on such proposed Parity Obligations and
any outstanding Parity Obligations due in any succeeding Year.
Nothing herein shall be construed as requiring the County to use or apply to the
payment of Bond Service Charges any funds or revenues from any source other than
Nontax Revenues. Nothing herein, however, shall be deemed to prohibit the County,
of its own volition, from using, to the extent that it is authorized by law to do so, any
other resources for the fulfillment of any of the terms, conditions or obligations of this
Resolution or of the Series 2020B Bonds.
Section 8.
Covenants of County. The County, by issuance of the Series 2020B
Bonds, covenants and agrees with the Holders of the Series 2020B Bonds that:
(a)
Use of Proceeds. The County will use the proceeds of the Series 2020B
Bonds for the purposes stated herein.
(b)
Segregation of Funds. The County will segregate, for accounting
purposes, the Funds established under the Indenture from all other revenues and funds
of the County.
(c)
Transcript of Proceedings. The Clerk of this Council, or other
appropriate officer of the County, will furnish to the Original Purchaser and to the
Trustee a true transcript of proceedings, certified by the Clerk of this Council or other
officer, of all proceedings had with reference to the issuance of the Series 2020B Bonds
together with such information from the County's records as is necessary to determine
the regularity and validity of such issuance.
(d)
Further Acts. The County will, at any and all times, cause to be done
all such further acts and things and cause to be signed and delivered all such further
instruments as may be necessary to carry out the purpose of the Series 2020B Bonds
and any resolution authorizing the same or as may be required by the Act.

Page 67 of 98

 (e)
Obligations of the County. The County will observe and perform all its
agreements and obligations provided for by the Bonds, the Indenture or this Resolution.
All of the obligations under this Resolution and the Indenture are hereby established as
duties specifically enjoined by law and resulting from an office, trust or station upon
the County within the meaning of Section 2731.01 of the Ohio Revised Code.
Section 9.
Indenture. To secure the payment of the Bond Service Charges on the
Bonds as the same shall become due and payable and the performance by the County
of its obligations as provided in this Resolution, the Bonds and the Indenture, the
County Executive and County Fiscal Officer are authorized and directed, for and in the
name of the County and on its behalf, to sign and deliver to the Trustee the First
Supplemental Trust Indenture in form and substance consistent with this Resolution as
shall be conclusively evidenced by the execution and delivery thereof.
Section 10. Other Documents and Actions. The County Executive, County Fiscal
Officer, Director of Law, Prosecuting Attorney, the Clerk of this Council, and other
County officials, as appropriate, are further authorized to sign any notices,
certifications, financing statements, agreements (including an intercreditor agreement
or amendment thereto if necessary), documents, instruments and opinions, and to take
such other actions, as are desirable, advisable, necessary or appropriate to perfect the
assignments set forth in the Indenture and to consummate the transactions contemplated
by this Resolution, the Indenture and the Purchase Agreement.
Section 11. Refunding of Refunded Bonds. This Council determines that it is in
the best interest of the County to refund the Refunded Bonds and to establish an escrow
fund to pay principal of and interest on the Refunded Bonds through their first optional
redemption date, and to pay the redemption price of the Refunded Bonds on such
redemption date. The County Fiscal Officer is authorized and directed to give to the
authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer agent and paying agent for the Refunded
Bonds, on or promptly after the Closing Date, written notice of the refunding, and the
Refunded Bonds shall be defeased in accordance with the provisions of this Resolution,
the Indenture, the Outstanding Bonds, the bond legislation authorizing the Outstanding
Bonds and the Escrow Agreement.
The County Executive and the County Fiscal Officer shall sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the County and in their official capacities, the Escrow
Agreement, in form and substance consistent with the Resolution as shall be
conclusively evidenced by the execution and delivery thereof. The County Fiscal
Officer shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and for reimbursement
of expenses incurred pursuant to the Escrow Agreement, except to the extent paid by
the Original Purchasers in accordance with the Purchase Agreement, from the proceeds
of the Bonds to the extent available and otherwise from other funds lawfully available
and that are appropriated or shall be appropriated for that purpose.
There is created under the Escrow Agreement a trust fund designated the
“County of Cuyahoga Refunded 2010B Bonds Escrow Fund” that shall be held and
maintained by the Escrow Trustee in trust for the registered owners of the Refunded

Page 68 of 98

 Bonds and is pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on the Refunded
Bonds, all in accordance with the provisions of the Escrow Agreement. The County
Fiscal Officer is hereby authorized and directed to pay to the Escrow Trustee for deposit
in the Escrow Fund (i) any available funds on deposit in the Bond Retirement Fund for
the payment of debt charges on the Refunded Bonds determined by the County Fiscal
Officer to be applied for that purpose, (ii) any funds available for such payment in the
Bond Reserve Fund or other funds or accounts established in connection with the
issuance of the Refunded Bonds pursuant to the Indenture, and (iii) proceeds from the
sale of the Series 2020B Bonds, except any accrued interest and any proceeds to be
used for the payment of any expenses properly allocable to the refunding of the
Refunded Bonds or the issuance of the Series 2020B Bonds as determined by the
County Fiscal Officer, in the amount required, together with the funds referred to in (i)
to provide for the defeasance of the Refunded Bonds. The funds and proceeds so paid
to the Escrow Trustee are appropriated and shall be applied to pay principal of and
interest on the Refunded Bonds, as provided in the Escrow Agreement.
The funds so deposited in the Escrow Fund shall be (a) held in cash to the extent
that they are not needed to make the investments hereinafter described and (b) invested
in direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed as to payment by, the United States
of America (within the meaning of Section 133.34(D) of the Revised Code) that mature
or are subject to redemption by and at the option of the holder, in amounts sufficient,
together with any uninvested cash in the Escrow Fund but without further investment
or reinvestment, for the payment of (i) interest when due on the Refunded Bonds
following the date of issuance of the Series 2020B Bonds through and including their
call for redemption, and (ii) the principal of the Refunded Bonds upon their redemption
by optional redemption, as provided in the Escrow Agreement.
If U.S. Treasury Securities -- State and Local Government Securities are to be
purchased for the Escrow Fund, the County Fiscal Officer, the Escrow Trustee and the
Financial Advisor, or any of them individually, are hereby specifically authorized to
file, on behalf of the County, subscriptions for the purchase and issuance of those U.S.
Treasury Securities - State and Local Government Securities. If, in the judgment of the
County Fiscal Officer, an open-market purchase of obligations described in (b) in the
preceding paragraph for the Escrow Fund is in the best interest of and financially
advantageous to this County, the County Fiscal Officer or any other officer of the
County, on behalf of the County and in his official capacity, may purchase and deliver
such obligations, engage the services of a financial advisor, bidding agent or similar
entity for the purpose of facilitating the bidding, purchase and delivery of such
obligations for, and any related structuring of, the Escrow Fund, execute such
instruments as are deemed necessary to engage such services for such purpose, and
provide further for the payment of the cost of obtaining such services, except to the
extent paid by the Original Purchasers in accordance with the Purchase Agreement,
from the proceeds of the Series 2020B Bonds to the extent available and otherwise from
any other funds lawfully available and that are appropriated or shall be appropriated
for that purpose. Any actions heretofore taken by any of those officers in connection
with the foregoing are hereby ratified and approved.

Page 69 of 98

 This Council further authorizes and directs the County Fiscal Officer to retain,
on behalf of the County, the services of an independent public accounting firm to
perform a verification of the sufficiency of amounts in the Escrow Fund to cause the
Refunded Bonds to be deemed defeased as described in the Indenture.
Section 12. Bond Counsel. This Council hereby retains the legal services of
McDonald Hopkins LLC., as Bond Counsel to the County, in connection with the
authorization, sale, issuance and delivery of the Series 2020B Bonds, pursuant to the
authority in Ohio Revised Code Section 165.02. In providing those legal services, as
an independent contractor and in an attorney-client relationship, Bond Counsel shall
not exercise any administrative discretion on behalf of the County in the formulation
of public policy, expenditure of public funds, enforcement of laws, rules and
regulations of the State, or of the County, or of any other political subdivision of the
State, or the execution of public trusts.
Section 13. Council Determination. This Council determines that all acts and
conditions necessary to be performed by the County or to have been met precedent to
and in the issuing of the Series 2020B Bonds in order to make them legal, valid and
binding special obligations of the County have been performed and have been met, or
will at the time of delivery of the Series 2020B Bonds have been performed and have
been met, in regular and due form as required by law, as advised by Bond Counsel; and
that no statutory or constitutional limitation of indebtedness or taxation will have been
exceeded in the issuance of the Series 2020B Bonds.
Section 14. Severability. Each section of this Resolution and each subdivision or
paragraph of any section thereof is declared to be independent and the finding or
holding of any section or any subdivision or paragraph of any section thereof to be
invalid or void shall not be deemed or held to affect the validity of any other section,
subdivision or paragraph of this Resolution.
Section 15. Compliance with Open Meeting Law. This Council finds and
determines that all formal actions of this Council concerning and relating to the passage
of this Resolution were adopted in an open meeting of this Council and that all
deliberations of this Council and of any of its committees that resulted in such formal
action were in meetings open to the public in compliance with the law.
Section 16. Effective Date. It is necessary that this Resolution become immediately
effective for the usual daily operation of the County; the preservation of public peace,
health, or safety in the County; and any additional reasons set forth in the preamble.
Provided that this Resolution receives the affirmative vote of at least eight members of
Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon the earliest occurrence of
any of the following: (i) its approval by the County Executive through signature, (ii)
the expiration of the time during which it may be disapproved by the County Executive
under Section 3.10(6) of the Charter, or (iii) its passage by at least eight members of
Council after disapproval pursuant to Section 3.10(7) of the Charter. Otherwise, it shall
take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed by law.

Page 70 of 98

 On a motion by ___________, seconded by __________, the foregoing Resolution was
duly adopted.
Yeas:
Nays:

_________________________
County Council President

__________
Date

_________________________
County Executive

__________
Date

_________________________
Clerk of Council

__________
Date

First Reading/Referred to Committee: November 26, 2019
Committee(s) Assigned: Finance & Budgeting
Bond Counsel: McDonald Hopkins LLC
Legislation Substituted in Committee: December 9, 2019
Journal ______
_______, 2019

Page 71 of 98

 County Council of Cuyahoga County, Ohio
Resolution No. R2019-0278
Sponsored by: County Executive
Budish/Fiscal Officer/Office of
Budget and Management

A Resolution authorizing the issuance and
sale of County of Cuyahoga, Ohio,
Economic
Development
Revenue
Refunding Bonds, Series 2010C (Gateway
Arena Project), in the maximum aggregate
principal amount of $16,000,000.00, in one
or more series, for the purpose of providing
moneys to refund certain outstanding bonds
issued to pay costs of a “Project” within the
meaning of Chapter 165, Ohio Revised
Code and to refund bonds previously issued
for that purpose; authorizing the execution
and delivery of a supplemental trust
indenture securing the payment of the
bonds, a purchase agreement relating to the
sale of the bonds and related agreements and
certificates; authorizing and approving
related matters; and declaring the necessity
that this Resolution become immediately
effective.

WHEREAS, Cuyahoga County, the City of Cleveland (City), and the Gateway
Economic Development Corporation of Greater Cleveland (Gateway) worked
cooperatively toward the objective of providing in the County a new open-air stadium
for professional baseball games, a new multi-purpose arena for professional basketball
games and other special events, related parking facilities and site and common area
improvements; and
WHEREAS, the County issued its economic development revenue bonds for
the purpose stated above which were refunded by the proceeds of the County’s
Economic Development Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2010C (Gateway Arena
Project) (the “Series 2010C Bonds”); and
WHEREAS, the County, as a county and political subdivision duly organized
and validly existing under the laws of the State of Ohio, is authorized and empowered,
by virtue of the laws of the State of Ohio, including without limitation, Section 13 of
Article VIII, Ohio Constitution, and Chapter 165, Ohio Revised Code and, specifically
Section 165.07 thereof, (a) to issue its revenue bonds for the purpose of refunding
revenue bonds it previously issued to provide moneys to construct, improve, furnish or
equip a “project,” as defined in Section 165.01, Ohio Revised Code, located within the

Page 72 of 98

 boundaries of the County, when the refunding bonds will bear interest at a lower rate
than the bonds to be refunded, when the interest cost of the refunding bonds computed
to the absolute maturity will be less than the interest cost of the bonds to be refunded,
or when the average life of the refunding bonds will be greater than the remaining
average life of the bonds to be refunded, and (b) to adopt this Resolution and to enter
into the Sixth Supplemental Trust Indenture, and related agreements, all as defined and
provided herein, upon the terms and conditions provided herein and therein;
WHEREAS, it is necessary that this Resolution become immediately effective
in order that the usual daily operation of the County be continued and the public peace,
health or safety of the County be preserved and for the further reason that funds be
made available in a timely manner to achieve the benefits of refunding the Outstanding
Bonds.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COUNTY COUNCIL OF
CUYAHOGA COUNTY, OHIO:
Section 1.
Definitions. Except as otherwise provided herein, words and
terms used but not defined in this Resolution shall have the meanings given in the
Indenture defined below. The following words and terms shall have the following
definitions, unless the context or use clearly indicates another meaning or intent:
“Authorized Official” means the County Executive, County Fiscal Officer or any other
authorized officer of the County as necessary or appropriate.
“Book Entry Form” or “Book Entry System” means, with respect to the Series 2020
Bonds, a form or system, as applicable, under which (i) physical Bond certificates in
fully registered form are issued only to a Depository or its nominee as Holder, with the
physical Bond certificates “immobilized” in the custody of the Depository and (ii) the
ownership of book entry interests in Series 2020 Bonds and Bond Service Charges
thereon may be transferred only through a book entry made by others than the County
or the Trustee. The records maintained by others than the County or the Trustee
constitute the written record that identifies the owners, and records the transfer, of book
entry interests in the Series 2020 Bonds and Bond Service Charges thereon.
“Closing Date” means the date of original delivery of and payment of the purchase
price for the Series 2020 Bonds.
“Costs of Issuance of the Bonds” means, with respect to the Series 2020 Bonds, any
underwriter's discount and any other financial, legal, administrative and other fees or
costs incurred in connection with the issuance of the Series 2020 Bonds.
“County Executive” means the County Executive of the County or his designee for the
purposes of signing documents.
“County Fiscal Officer” means the Fiscal Officer of the County or designee for
purposes of signing documents.

Page 73 of 98

 “Depository” means The Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust
company), New York, New York until a successor Depository shall have become such
pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Fifth Supplemental Indenture and,
thereafter, Depository shall mean the successor Depository. Any Depository shall be a
securities depository that is a clearing agency under federal law operating and
maintaining, with its participants or otherwise, a Book Entry System to record
ownership of book entry interests in the Series 2020 Bonds or Bond Service Charges
thereon, and to effect transfers of book entry interests in the Series 2020 Bonds.
“Escrow Agreement” means the Escrow Agreement established pursuant to this
Resolution.
“Escrow Trustee” means the Escrow Trustee appointed in the Escrow Agreement.
“Final Terms Certificate” means, with respect to the Series 2020 Bonds, the certificate
or certificates authorized by Section 6 of this Resolution to be signed by the County
Executive or County Fiscal Officer, setting forth and determining those terms or other
matters pertaining to the Series 2020 Bonds and their issuance, sale and delivery as this
Resolution provides may or shall be set forth or determined therein.
“Indenture” means collectively the Master Indenture as amended and supplemented
by the First Supplemental Trust Indenture, the Second Supplemental Trust Indenture,
the Third Supplemental Trust Indenture, the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, the Fifth
Supplemental Indenture and the Sixth Supplemental Indenture, and as the same may be
further amended or supplemented from time to time.
“Original Purchaser” means those purchasers of the Series 2020 Bonds identified in
the Purchase Agreement for the Series 2020 Bonds.
“Purchase Agreement” means with respect to the Series 2020 Bonds, one or more
Bond Purchase Agreements between the County and the Original Purchaser.
“Refunded Bonds” means, the portion of the County of Cuyahoga, Ohio, Taxable
Economic Development Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2010 (Gateway Arena
Project) as set forth in the Final Terms Certificate.
“Rule” means Rule 15c2-12 prescribed by the SEC pursuant to the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934.
“Series 2020 Bonds” means the County of Cuyahoga, Ohio, Taxable Economic
Development Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2020C (Gateway Arena Project),
issued by the County pursuant to this Resolution and the Indenture.
“Sixth Supplemental Indenture” means the Sixth Supplemental Trust Indenture dated
as determined by the Authorized Official executing such document, between the
County and the Trustee, as may be amended or supplemented from time to time.

Page 74 of 98

 The captions and headings in this Resolution are solely for convenience of reference
and do not define, limit or describe the scope or intent of any provisions or sections of
this Resolution.
Section 2.
Determinations by Council. This Council determines that: (i)
the issuance of the Series 2020 Bonds for the purpose of refunding the Refunded Bonds
is consistent with the requirements of Section 165.07 of the Act; and (ii) the issuance
of the Series 2020 Bonds for that purpose is in furtherance of the purposes of the Act
and will benefit the people of the County and of the State. Consistent with Section
165.031, in the resolution authorizing the Refunded Bonds, the County required that
all wages paid to laborers and mechanics employed on the project financed by the
Refunded Bonds be paid at prevailing rates of wages for the class of work called for,
determined in accordance with the requirements of Ohio Revised Code Chapter 4115.
Section 3.
Authorization of Series 2020 Bonds. This Board determines it
to be necessary to, and the County shall, issue, sell and deliver, as provided and
authorized herein and in the Indenture and pursuant to the authority of the Act, not to
exceed $16,000,000 principal amount of Series 2020 Bonds for the purpose of
providing moneys to refund the Refunded Bonds and pay costs and expenses relating
to the issuance of the Series 2020 Bonds. The Series 2020 Bonds are to be designated
“Taxable Economic Development Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2020C (Gateway
Arena Project)”, or such other designation as specified in the Final Terms Certificate.
The Series 2020 Bonds may be issued in one or more separate series, each bearing a
distinctive designation, provided that the Series 2020 Bonds of each series satisfy the
requirements of this Resolution and the Indenture. Separate series of Series 2020 Bonds
may be issued at the same or different times. The Series 2020 Bonds of each series shall
be designated as provided in the applicable Final Terms Certificate. A separate Final
Terms Certificate may be delivered for each series. In each case there shall be included
in the costs funded the costs of issuance of the Series 2020 Bonds and any required
deposits to the Special Funds.
Section 4.

Terms and Provisions of Series 2010 Bonds.

(a)
General. The actual principal amounts of Series 2020 Bonds to be issued
shall be specified in the Final Terms Certificate. The actual interest rates to be borne
by Series 2020 Bonds shall be determined in the Final Terms Certificate, provided that
the weighted average fixed interest rate shall not exceed 6% per year.
The Series 2020 Bonds shall be issued pursuant to the terms of the Indenture. The Series
2020 Bonds (i) shall be issued in Authorized Denominations, as defined in the Sixth
Supplemental Indenture; (ii) shall be dated as provided in the Final Terms Certificate,
but not more than 60 days prior to the Closing Date, (iii) shall bear interest payable on
the dates provided in the Final Terms Certificate; (iv) shall be executed and delivered
only in fully registered form, substantially as set forth in the Sixth Supplemental
Indenture; (v) shall be numbered in a manner determined by the Trustee which will
distinguish each Series 2020 Bond from each other Series 2020 Bond; and (vi) shall be

Page 75 of 98

 transferable and exchangeable for fully registered Series 2020 Bonds of the same series
in Authorized Denominations as provided in the Indenture, subject to the limitations
with respect to Series 2020 Bonds in Book Entry Form set forth in the Fifth
Supplemental Indenture.
(b)
Maturity Dates. The Series 2020 Bonds shall mature serially or as term
bonds subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption on June 1 in the years and the
respective principal amounts set forth in the Final Terms Certificate. The first principal
payment date (whether by mandatory sinking fund redemption or stated maturity) as
set forth in the Final Terms Certificate and determined to be necessary and advisable
to the issuance and sale of the Series 2020 Bonds once in the best interests and financial
advantages of the County, and the last principal payment date shall not be later than the
latest maturity of the Refunded Bonds.
(c)
Redemption Provisions. (i) The Series 2020 Bonds that may be issued
as term bonds shall be subject to mandatory redemption prior to maturity, pursuant to
the mandatory sinking fund redemption requirements of the Indenture, on June 1 in the
years and principal amounts to be specified in the Final Terms Certificate and to be
consistent with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this Section, and (ii) if agreed to
be the Original Purchaser, the Series 2020 Bonds may also be subject to redemption at
the option of the County in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the
Final Terms Certificate and in the Indenture; provided that the redemption price for the
earliest optional redemption date shall not be greater than 102%; provided, however,
that the Final Terms Certificate and the Indenture may provide that the Series 2020
Bonds are not optionally redeemable prior to maturity if it is determined in the Final
Terms Certificate that such optional redemption would adversely affect the ability of
the County to sell the Series 2020 Bonds at rates of interest acceptable to the County
based on current market conditions for taxable, fixed-interest rate obligations such as
the Series 2020 Bonds. If so designated in the Final Terms Certificate, the Series 2020
Bonds shall also be subject to redemption at the option of the County prior to their
stated maturities at any time in whole or in part on any date, at a redemption price that
will make the holders of such Series 2020 Bonds whole for the early redemption; if so,
then the Final Terms Certificate shall specify the method by which the “make whole”
redemption price shall be determined, provided that the redemption price shall not be
greater than 110% without further authorization of the Board. The Series 2020 Bonds
shall be subject to extraordinary redemption prior to maturity, at the option of the
County, in the event of damage or destruction of the Project or other extraordinary
events as set forth in Article III of the Master Indenture.
(d)
Execution. The Series 2020 Bonds shall be signed by the County
Executive and County Fiscal Officer in the name of the County and in their official
capacities, provided that any or all of those signatures may be facsimiles.
(e)
Other Provisions. The representative of the County signing the Final
Terms Certificate may determine and approve additional provisions with respect to the
Series 2020 Bonds that are not inconsistent with this Resolution and the Indenture and
that are set forth in the Final Terms Certificate or other duly executed certificate,

Page 76 of 98

 including without limitation: whether the Series 2020 Bonds shall be secured by the
Bond Reserve Fund and, if so, provisions for funding any additional deposit required
to be made to the Bond Reserve Fund; provisions for credit enhancement or liquidity
support from a municipal bond insurance company or bank or other organization.
Section 5.
Book Entry. The Series 2020 Bonds shall only be issued to a
Depository for use in a Book Entry System and (A) the Series 2020 Bonds shall be
registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee, as Bolder, and immobilized in
the custody of. the Depository; and (B) the Series 2020 Bonds as such shall not be
transferable or exchangeable, except for transfer to another Depository or another
nominee of a Depository and except as otherwise provided in the Indenture. If any
Depository determines not to continue to act as a Depository for the Series 2020 Bonds
for use in a Book Entry System, the County may attempt to have established a securities
depository/book entry system relationship with another qualified Depository under the
Indenture. If the County does not or is unable to do so, the County and the Trustee,
after the Trustee has made provision for notification of the owners of beneficial
interests in Series 2020 Bonds by appropriate notice to the then Depository, shall permit
withdrawal of the Series 2020 Bonds from the Depository, and authenticate and deliver
Bond certificates in fully registered form to the assignees of the Depository or its
nominee. Such withdrawal, authentication and delivery shall be at the cost and expense
(including costs of printing or otherwise preparing, and delivering, such replacement
Series 2020 Bonds) of those persons requesting that authentication and delivery.
Section 6.
Sale of the Series 2020 Bonds; Official Statement;
Continuing Disclosure.
(a)
Sale of the Series 2020 Bonds. The Series 2020 Bonds are awarded and
sold to the Original Purchaser in accordance with this Resolution and the Final Terms
Certificate. For the purpose of implementing the provisions of this Resolution, the
County Executive or County Fiscal Officer, acting alone or together, each is authorized
and directed to sign the Final Terms Certificate selling the Series 2020 Bonds to the
Original Purchaser at the purchase price established therein; provided that the purchase
price for the Series 2020 Bonds shall be not less than 97% of the aggregate original
offering price to the public, plus any accrued interest on the Series 2020 Bonds. In the
event that the Series 2020 Bonds are issued in more than one Series, the respective
Series may be issued at different times, and a separate Final Terms Certificate may be
signed and delivered for each Series. To evidence the sale and the terms and provisions
thereof, the County Executive or County Fiscal Officer, acting alone or together, shall
sign and deliver the Purchase Agreement for the Series 2020 Bonds in form and
substance consistent with the terms of this Resolution which shall be conclusively
evidenced by the execution and delivery thereof by the County Executive or County
Fiscal Officer.
It is hereby determined by this Council that the terms of the Series 2020 Bonds and the
procedures for the sale thereof and the determination of the prices to be paid therefor,
all as established in accordance with this Resolution, the Purchase Agreement and the

Page 77 of 98

 Indenture, are and will be in the best interest of the County and in compliance with all
legal requirements.
The County Executive and County Fiscal Officer are directed to make the necessary
arrangements on behalf of the County to establish the date, location, procedure and
conditions for the delivery of the Series 2020 Bonds to the Original Purchaser and to
take all actions necessary to effect due signing, authentication and delivery of the Series
2020 Bonds under the terms of this Resolution, the Purchase Agreement and the
Indenture.
(b)
Official Statement. The County Executive and County Fiscal Officer,
on behalf of the County and their official capacities, are authorized and directed to (i)
prepare or cause to be prepared, and make or authorize modifications, completions or
changes of or supplements to, a disclosure document in the form of an official statement
relating to the issuance of the Series 2020 Bonds of each series, (ii) determine, and to
certify or otherwise represent, when each official statement is to be “deemed final”
(except for permitted omissions) by the County as of its date or is a final official
statement for purposes of SEC Rule 15c2-12(b)(1), (3) and (4), (iii) use and distribute,
or authorize the use and distribution of preliminary and final official statements and
any supplements thereto in connection with the original issuance of the Series 2020
Bonds, and (iv) complete and sign those official statements as so approved together
with such certificates, statements or other documents in connection with the finality,
accuracy and completeness of those official statements as they may deem necessary or
appropriate.
(c)
Agreement to Provide Continuing Disclosure. If deemed necessary and
requested by the Original Purchaser, the County shall agree, as the only obligated
person with respect to the Series 2020 Bonds under the Rule, to provide or cause to be
provided such financial information and operating data, financial statements and
notices, in such manner, as may be required for purposes of paragraph (b)(5) of the
Rule. In order to describe and specify certain terms of the County's continuing
disclosure agreement for that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement,
including provisions for enforcement, amendment and termination, the County
Executive or County Fiscal Officer is authorized to sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the County, the Continuing Disclosure Certificate in form and substance
consistent with the terms of the Resolution as shall be conclusively evidenced by the
execution and delivery thereof. The agreement formed, collectively, by this paragraph
and that Certificate, shall be the County's continuing disclosure agreement for purposes
of the Rule, and its performance shall be subject to the availability of funds and their
annual appropriation to meet costs the County would be required to incur to perform it.
Section 7.
Allocation of Proceeds of the Series 2020 Bonds. The proceeds
from the sale of the Series 2020 Bonds (including without limitation any accrued
interest thereon) shall be allocated, deposited and credited to the appropriate funds and
accounts therein as set forth in the Final Terms Certificate.

Page 78 of 98

 Section 8.
Security for the Series 2020 Bonds. The Series 2020 Bonds
shall be special obligations of the County, and the Bond Service Charges thereon,
together with the Bond Service Charges on any other Series of Bonds issued under the
Indenture, shall be payable equally and ratably solely from the Revenues as defined in
the Indenture, being: (i) Gateway's Net Revenues, (ii) the Loan Payments, including
Primary Loan Payments and Coverage Loan Payments, as defined in the Agreement,
to be received by the County or the Trustee in respect of the current repayment of the
Long Term Loan, (iii) proceeds of any Series of Bonds to be available to pay Bond
Service Charges to the extent set forth in the Supplemental Indenture for that Series;
(iv) Nontax Revenues of the County deposited in the County Pledge Fund, (v) all
money and investments held by the Trustee in the Special Funds to the extent set forth
in the Sixth Supplemental Indenture, (vi) the Arena Bonds PILOT, (vii) payments made
to the County or the Trustee by the City from its non-tax revenues pursuant to Section
4 of the Two-Party Agreement and deposited in the Auxiliary Pledge Fund, and (viii)
all income and profit from the investment of the foregoing moneys. The payment of
Bond Service Charges on the Series 2020 Bonds, together with the Bond Service
Charges on any other Series of Bonds issued under the Master Indenture, shall be
secured by the Indenture, by the pledge and assignment by the County to the Trustee
under the Indenture of the Revenues and the pledge by the County under the Indenture
of its Nontax Revenues.
The Series 2020 Bonds shall not represent or constitute a general obligation debt, or
pledge of the faith and credit or the taxing power of the County or of the State or of any
political subdivision, county, municipality or other local agency thereof. The Holders
of the Series 2020 Bonds shall not have the right to have excises, ad valorem taxes or
other taxes levied by the Board or the County, or by the State or the taxing authority of
any other political subdivision, for the payment of Bond Service Charges on the Series
2020 Bonds.
The County has pledged its Nontax Revenues for the payment of Bond Service Charges
on the Bonds, including any other Series of Bonds issued under the Indenture. In
furtherance of that pledge, the County covenants that it shall appropriate in its annual
appropriation measure for each calendar year and shall deposit in the County Pledge
Fund held by the Trustee under the Indenture, Nontax Revenues in an amount sufficient
to pay Bond Service Charges due and payable on the Bonds that year, less any amounts
remaining in the County Pledge Fund after all Bond Service Charges for the prior
calendar year have been paid. The County acknowledges that such covenant is
enforceable by the courts by mandamus pursuant to Revised Code Chapter 165 and the
Indenture.
Section 9.
Covenant and Agreement of County Regarding Transcript.
In addition to the other covenants and agreements of the County in this Resolution and
the Indenture, the County covenants and agrees that the Clerk, or other appropriate
officer of the County, shall furnish to the Original Purchaser a true transcript of
proceedings, certified by the Clerk or other officer, of (i) all proceedings had with
reference to the issuance of the Series 2020 Bonds and (ii) any other information from

Page 79 of 98

 the records of the County which may be necessary or appropriate to determine the
regularity and validity of the issuance of the Series 2020 Bonds.
Section 10. Bond Documents. To provide for the issuance and sale of the
Series 2020 Bonds and the consummation of the transactions contemplated therein and
in this Resolution, the County Executive and County Fiscal Officer are authorized and
directed, for and in the name and on behalf of the County, to execute, acknowledge and
deliver, the Sixth Supplemental Indenture in form and substance consistent with the
terms of this Resolution which shall be conclusively evidenced by the execution and
delivery thereof. The County Executive and County Fiscal Officer are authorized to
enter into any amendments or supplements of the Revolving Loan Agreement, the
Three-Party Agreement, the Two-Party Agreement, the Bed-Tax Agreement, the
Intercreditor and Bailment Agreement or such other agreement or instrument that may
be necessary or appropriate in connection with the issuance of the Series 2020 Bonds,
the refunding of the Refunded Bonds and the securing of the Series 2020 Bonds as
provided in the Indenture and that have been approved by the County's legal counsel
and the officers executing those documents.
This Council determines that it is in the best interest of the County to refund the
Outstanding Bonds and to establish an escrow fund to pay principal of and interest on
the Outstanding Bonds through their first optional redemption date, and to pay the
redemption price of the Outstanding Bonds on such redemption date. The County
Fiscal Officer is authorized and directed to give to the authenticating agent, bond
registrar, transfer agent and paying agent for the Outstanding Bonds, on or promptly
after the Closing Date, written notice of the refunding, and the Outstanding Bonds shall
be defeased in accordance with the provisions of this Resolution, the Original
Indenture, the Outstanding Bonds, the bond legislation authorizing the Outstanding
Bonds and the Escrow Agreement.
The County Executive and the County Fiscal Officer shall sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the County and in their official capacities, the Escrow
Agreement, in form and substance consistent with the Resolution as shall be
conclusively evidenced by the execution and delivery thereof. The County Fiscal
Officer shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and for reimbursement
of expenses incurred pursuant to the Escrow Agreement, except to the extent paid by
the Original Purchasers in accordance with the Purchase Agreement, from the proceeds
of the Bonds to the extent available and otherwise from other funds lawfully available
and that are appropriated or shall be appropriated for that purpose.
There is created under the Escrow Agreement a trust fund designated the
“County of Cuyahoga Refunded 2010 Bonds Escrow Fund” that shall be held and
maintained by the Escrow Trustee in trust for the registered owners of the Outstanding
Bonds and is pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on the Outstanding
Bonds, all in accordance with the provisions of the Escrow Agreement. The County
Fiscal Officer is hereby authorized and directed to pay to the Escrow Trustee for deposit
in the Escrow Fund (i) any available funds on deposit in the Bond Retirement Fund for
the payment of debt charges on the Outstanding Bonds determined by the County Fiscal

Page 80 of 98

 Officer to be applied for that purpose, (ii) any funds available for such payment in the
Bond Reserve Fund established in connection with the issuance of the Outstanding
Bonds pursuant to the Original Indenture, and (iii) proceeds from the sale of the Bonds,
except any accrued interest and any proceeds to be used for the payment of any
expenses properly allocable to the refunding of the Outstanding Bonds or the issuance
of the Bonds as determined by the County Fiscal Officer, in the amount required,
together with the funds referred to in (i), to provide for the defeasance of the
Outstanding Bonds. The funds and proceeds so paid to the Escrow Trustee are
appropriated and shall be applied to pay principal of and interest on the Outstanding
Bonds, as provided in the Escrow Agreement.
The funds so deposited in the Escrow Fund shall be (a) held in cash to the extent
that they are not needed to make the investments hereinafter described and (b) invested
in direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed as to payment by, the United States
of America (within the meaning of Section 133.34(D) of the Revised Code) that mature
or are subject to redemption by and at the option of the holder, in amounts sufficient,
together with any uninvested cash in the Escrow Fund but without further investment
or reinvestment, for the payment of (i) interest when due on the Outstanding Bonds
following the date of issuance of the Bonds through and including the call redemption
of the Outstanding Bonds, and (ii) the principal of the Outstanding Bonds upon their
redemption by optional redemption as provided in the Escrow Agreement.
If U.S. Treasury Securities -- State and Local Government Series are to be
purchased for the Escrow Fund, the County Fiscal Officer, the Escrow Trustee and the
Financial Advisor, or any of them individually, are hereby specifically authorized to
file, on behalf of the County, subscriptions for the purchase and issuance of those U.S.
Treasury Securities - State and Local Government Series. If, in the judgment of the
County Fiscal Officer, an open-market purchase of obligations described in (b) in the
preceding paragraph for the Escrow Fund is in the best interest of and financially
advantageous to this County, the County Fiscal Officer or any other officer of the
County, on behalf of the County and in his official capacity, may purchase and deliver
such obligations, engage the services of a financial advisor, bidding agent or similar
entity for the purpose of facilitating the bidding, purchase and delivery of such
obligations for, and any related structuring of, the Escrow Fund, execute such
instruments as are deemed necessary to engage such services for such purpose, and
provide further for the payment of the cost of obtaining such services, except to the
extent paid by the Original Purchasers in accordance with the Purchase Agreement,
from the proceeds of the Bonds to the extent available and otherwise from any other
funds lawfully available and that are appropriated or shall be appropriated for that
purpose. Any actions heretofore taken by any of those officers in connection with the
foregoing are hereby ratified and approved.
This Council further authorizes and directs the County Fiscal Officer to retain,
on behalf of the County, the services of an independent public accounting firm to
perform a verification of the sufficiency of amounts in the Escrow Fund to cause the
Original Bonds to be deemed defeased as described in the Original Indenture.

Page 81 of 98

 Section 11. Authorization of Bond Rating. If, in the judgment of the
County Executive or County Fiscal Officer, the filing of an application for a rating on
the Series 2020 Bonds by one or more nationally recognized rating agencies is
necessary or desirable for marketing of the Series 2020 Bonds, the County Executive
or County Fiscal Officer in their official capacities, is hereby authorized to prepare and
submit any or all of those applications, to provide such information as may be required
in support thereof and to provide further for the payment of the cost of such a rating or
policy from funds to be appropriated for the purpose if and to the extent that such
payment shall not be made by the Original Purchaser.
Section 12. Bond Counsel. This Board hereby retains the legal services of
McDonald Hopkins LLC, as Bond Counsel to the County, in connection with the
authorization, sale, issuance and delivery of the Series 2020 Bonds and the refunding
of the Refunded Bonds, pursuant to the authority in Ohio Revised Code Section 165.02.
In providing those legal services, as an independent contractor and in an attorney-client
relationship, Bond Counsel shall not exercise any administrative discretion on behalf
of the County in the formulation of public policy, expenditure of public funds,
enforcement of laws, rules and regulations of the State, or of the County, or of any other
political subdivision of the State, or the execution of public trusts.
Section 13. Other Documents. The County Executive, the County Fiscal
Officer, the Director of Law, County Prosecutor, the Clerk, or such other officials of
the County, as appropriate, are authorized and directed to (i) execute any documents,
certifications, financing statements, assignments and instruments which are necessary
or appropriate to perfect the assignments set forth in the Indenture and to carry out the
transactions contemplated in this Resolution, the Indenture, the Purchase Agreement,
the Revolving Loan Agreement, the Three-Party Agreement, the Two-Party
Agreement, the Bed Tax Agreement, and the Iutercreditor and Bailment Agreement.
Section 14. Severability. Each section of this Resolution and each
subdivision or paragraph of any section thereof is declared to be independent and the
finding or holding of any section or any subdivision or paragraph of any section thereof
to be invalid or void shall not be deemed or held to affect the validity of any other
section, subdivision or paragraph of this Bond Legislation.
Section 15. Compliance with Open Meeting Requirements. It is found
and determined that all formal actions of this Board concerning and relating to the
adoption of this Resolution were adopted in an open meeting of this Board, and that all
deliberations of this Board and of any of its committees that resulted in those formal
actions, were in meetings open to the public in compliance with the law.
Section 16. Effective Date. It is necessary that this Resolution become
immediately effective for the usual daily operation of the County; the preservation of
public peace, health, or safety in the County; and any additional reasons set forth in the
preamble. Provided that this Resolution receives the affirmative vote of at least eight
members of Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon the earliest

Page 82 of 98

 occurrence of any of the following: (i) its approval by the County Executive through
signature, (ii) the expiration of the time during which it may be disapproved by the
County Executive under Section 3.10(6) of the Charter, or (iii) its passage by at least
eight members of Council after disapproval pursuant to Section 3.10(7) of the Charter.
Otherwise, it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
On a motion by ___________, seconded by __________, the foregoing Resolution was
duly adopted.
Yeas:
Nays:

_________________________
County Council President

__________
Date

_________________________
County Executive

__________
Date

_________________________
Clerk of Council

__________
Date

First Reading/Referred to Committee: November 26, 2019
Committee(s) Assigned: Finance & Budgeting
Bond Counsel: McDonald Hopkins LLC
Journal ______
_______, 2019

Page 83 of 98

 [PROPOSED SUBSTITUTE]

County Council of Cuyahoga County, Ohio
Resolution No. R2019-0278
Sponsored by: County Executive
Budish/Fiscal Officer/Office of
Budget and Management

A Resolution authorizing the issuance and
sale of County of Cuyahoga, Ohio,
Economic
Development
Revenue
Refunding Bonds, Series 2020C (Gateway
Arena Project), in the maximum aggregate
principal amount of $16,000,000.00, in one
or more series, for the purpose of providing
moneys to refund a certain portion of the
County's Economic Development Revenue
Refunding Bonds, Series 2010C, originally
issued for the purpose of providing moneys
to pay costs of a “Project” within the
meaning of Chapter 165, Ohio Revised
Code and to refund bonds previously issued
for that purpose; authorizing the execution
and delivery of a supplemental trust
indenture securing the payment of the
bonds; establishing funds of the County
related thereto; authorizing the execution
and delivery of a purchase agreement
relating to the sale of the bonds and related
agreements and certificates; authorizing and
approving related matters; and declaring the
necessity that this Resolution become
immediately effective.

WHEREAS, Cuyahoga County, the City of Cleveland (City), and the Gateway
Economic Development Corporation of Greater Cleveland (Gateway) worked
cooperatively toward the objective of providing in the County a new open-air stadium
for professional baseball games, a new multi-purpose arena for professional basketball
games and other special events, related parking facilities and site and common area
improvements; and
WHEREAS, the County issued its economic development revenue bonds for
the purpose stated above which were refunded by the proceeds of the County’s
Economic Development Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2010C (Gateway Arena
Project) (the “Series 2010C Bonds”); and
WHEREAS, this Council finds and determines that it is in the best interest of
the County to refund certain outstanding Series 2010C Bonds as set forth in the Final

Page 84 of 98

 Terms Certificate authorized herein (the “Refunded Bonds”) and to take other actions
as necessary in connection therewith; and
WHEREAS, the Series 2020C Bonds shall be issued pursuant to the Master
Indenture dated as of September 15, 1992 (the Original Indenture), as supplemented
and amended from time to time, including a Sixth Supplemental Trust Indenture (the
“Sixth Supplemental Trust Indenture”) in form and substance consistent with the terms
of this Resolution as shall be conclusively evidenced by the execution thereof by the
officials authorized herein to execute such document; and
WHEREAS, the County, as a county and political subdivision duly organized
and validly existing under the laws of the State of Ohio, is authorized and empowered,
by virtue of the laws of the State of Ohio, including without limitation, Section 13 of
Article VIII, Ohio Constitution, and Chapter 165, Ohio Revised Code and, specifically
Section 165.07 thereof, (a) to issue its revenue bonds for the purpose of refunding
revenue bonds it previously issued to provide moneys to construct, improve, furnish or
equip a “project,” as defined in Section 165.01, Ohio Revised Code, located within the
boundaries of the County, when the refunding bonds will bear interest at a lower rate
than the bonds to be refunded, when the interest cost of the refunding bonds computed
to the absolute maturity will be less than the interest cost of the bonds to be refunded,
or when the average life of the refunding bonds will be greater than the remaining
average life of the bonds to be refunded, and (b) to adopt this Resolution and to enter
into the Sixth Supplemental Trust Indenture, and related agreements, all as defined and
provided herein, upon the terms and conditions provided herein and therein; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary that this Resolution become immediately effective
in order that the usual daily operation of the County be continued and the public peace,
health or safety of the County be preserved and for the further reason that funds be
made available in a timely manner to achieve the benefits of refunding the Refunded
Bonds.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COUNTY COUNCIL OF
CUYAHOGA COUNTY, OHIO:
Section 1.
Definitions. Except as otherwise provided herein, words and
terms used but not defined in this Resolution shall have the meanings given in the
Indenture defined below. The following words and terms shall have the following
“Bond Counsel” means McDonald Hopkins LLC.
“Brownfield Indenture” means the Trust Indenture dated as of October 1, 1998, as
amended by the First Supplemental Trust Indenture dated as of February 1, 2004, the
Second Supplemental Trust Indenture dated as of September 1, 2010, and the Third
Supplemental Trust Indenture authorized to be dated as of February 1, 2020, between
the Issuer and the Brownfield Trustee and as further amended and supplemental from
time to time.

Page 85 of 98

 “Brownfield Revenues” means the Net Project Revenues as defined in the Brownfield
Indenture.
“Brownfield Trustee” means The Huntington National Bank, as trustee under the
Brownfield Indenture, and its successors and assigns.
“Book Entry Form” or “Book Entry System” means, with respect to the Series 2020C
Bonds, a form or system, as applicable, under which (i) physical Bond certificates in
fully registered form are issued only to a Depository or its nominee as Holder, with the
physical Bond certificates “immobilized” in the custody of the Depository and (ii) the
ownership of book entry interests in Series 2020C Bonds and Bond Service Charges
thereon may be transferred only through a book entry made by others than the County
or the Trustee. The records maintained by others than the County or the Trustee
constitute the written record that identifies the owners, and records the transfer, of book
entry interests in the Series 2020C Bonds and Bond Service Charges thereon.
“Closing Date” means the date of original delivery of and payment of the purchase
price for the Series 2020C Bonds.
“Commercial Redevelopment Indenture” means the Trust Indenture dated as of
September 1, 2010, as amended and supplemented by the First Supplemental Trust
Indenture authorized to be dated February 1, 2020, between the Issuer and the
Commercial Redevelopment Trustee, as may be amended and supplemented from time
to time.
“Commercial Redevelopment Revenues” means the Pledged Nontax Revenues as
defined in the Commercial Redevelopment Indenture.
“Commercial Redevelopment Trustee” means the Huntington National Bank as trustee
under the Commercial Redevelopment Indenture.
“Continuing Disclosure Certificate” means the certificate authorized by Section 6(c)
hereof which, together with the agreements of the County set forth in that section, shall
constitute the continuing disclosure agreement made by the County for the benefit of
the holders and beneficial owners of the Series 2020C Bonds in accordance with the
Rule.
“County Executive” means the County Executive of the County or his designee for the
purposes of signing documents.
“County Fiscal Officer” means the Fiscal Officer including an interim or acting Fiscal
Officer of the County or designee for purposes of signing documents.
“Depository” means The Depository Trust Company (a limited purpose trust
company), New York, New York until a successor Depository shall have become such
pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Fifth Supplemental Trust Indenture and,
thereafter, Depository shall mean the successor Depository. Any Depository shall be a
securities depository that is a clearing agency under federal law operating and

Page 86 of 98

 maintaining, with its participants or otherwise, a Book Entry System to record
ownership of book entry interests in the Series 2020C Bonds or Bond Service Charges
thereon, and to effect transfers of book entry interests in the Series 2020C Bonds.
“Escrow Agreement” means the Escrow Agreement established pursuant to this
Resolution.
“Escrow Trustee” means the Escrow Trustee appointed in the Escrow Agreement.
“Final Terms Certificate” means, with respect to the Series 2020C Bonds, the
certificate or certificates authorized by Section 6 of this Resolution to be signed by the
County Executive or County Fiscal Officer, setting forth and determining those terms
or other matters pertaining to the Series 2020C Bonds and their issuance, sale and
delivery as this Resolution provides may or shall be set forth or determined therein.
“Flats Indenture” means the Trust Indenture dated as of April 1, 2014 between the
County and the Flats Trustee.
“Flats Revenues” means the Project Revenues as defined in the Flats Indenture.
“Flats Trustee” means The Huntington National Bank, as trustee under the Flats
Indenture, and its successors and assigns.
“Indenture” means, collectively, the Master Indenture dated as of September 15, 1992,
as amended and supplemented by the First Supplemental Trust Indenture, the Second
Supplemental Trust Indenture, the Third Supplemental Trust Indenture, the Fourth
Supplemental Trust Indenture, the Fifth Supplemental Trust Indenture, and the Sixth
Supplemental Trust Indenture, and as the same may be further amended or
supplemented from time to time.
“Medical Mart/Convention Center Indenture” means the Trust Indenture dated as of
December 1, 2010 between the County and the Medical Mart/Convention Center
Trustee.
“Medical Mart/Convention Center Revenues” means the Project Revenues as defined
in the Medical Mart/Convention Center Indenture.
“Medical Mart/Convention Center Trustee” means U.S. Bank National Association as
trustee under the Medical Mart/Convention Center Indenture, and its successors and
assigns.
“MetroHealth Payments” means the payments received by the County pursuant to that
certain Payment Agreement dated April 26, 2017 between the County and the Board of
Trustees of the MetroHealth System.
“Nontax Revenues” means all moneys of the County that are not raised by taxation, to
the extent available for the payment of bond service charges on the Bonds, including,

Page 87 of 98

 but not limited to, the following: (a) charges for services and payments received in
reimbursement for services; (b) payments in lieu of taxes now or hereafter authorized
by State statute; (c) fines and forfeitures; (d) fees from properly imposed licenses and
permits; (e) investment earnings on any funds of the County that are credited to the
County's General Fund; (f) proceeds from the sale of assets; (g) rental income; (h)
grants from the United States of America and the State; (i) gifts and donations; and (j)
the Revenues; provided that Nontax Revenues do not include Brownfield Revenues,
the Commercial Redevelopment Revenues, the Medical Mart/Convention Center
Revenues, the Westin Revenues, the Steelyard Revenues, the MetroHealth Payments
or the Flats Revenues.
“Original Purchaser” means those purchasers of the Series 2020C Bonds identified in
the Purchase Agreement for the Series 2020C Bonds.
“Purchase Agreement” means with respect to the Series 2020C Bonds, one or more
Bond Purchase Agreements between the County and the Original Purchaser.
“Refunded Bonds” means, the portion of the County of Cuyahoga, Ohio, Taxable
Economic Development Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2010C (Gateway Arena
Project) as set forth in the Final Terms Certificate.
“Revenues” means Revenues as defined in the Indenture and further described in
Section 8 hereof.
“Rule” means Rule 15c2-12 prescribed by the SEC pursuant to the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as the same may be amended from time to time.
“Series 2020C Bonds” means the County of Cuyahoga, Ohio, Taxable Economic
Development Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2020C (Gateway Arena Project),
issued by the County pursuant to this Resolution and the Indenture.
“Sixth Supplemental Trust Indenture” means the Sixth Supplemental Trust Indenture
dated as determined by the authorized official executing such document, between the
County and the Trustee, as may be amended or supplemented from time to time.
“Steelyard Resolutions” means Resolution No. 2013-0199 adopted by the Council on
September 24, 2013.
“Steelyard Revenues” means the Project Revenues as defined in the Steelyard
Resolution.
“Trustee” means Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., a national banking
association organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America and
duly qualified to exercise corporate trust powers in the State of Ohio, until a successor
Trustee shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Indenture,
and thereafter “Trustee” shall mean the successor Trustee.

Page 88 of 98

 “Westin Resolution” means the Resolution No. R2013-0224 adopted by the Council
on December 10, 2013.
“Westin Revenues” means the Project Revenues as defined in the Westin Resolution.
The captions and headings in this Resolution are solely for convenience of reference
and do not define, limit or describe the scope or intent of any provisions or sections of
this Resolution.
Section 2.
Determinations by Council. This Council determines that: (i)
the issuance of the Series 2020C Bonds for the purpose of refunding the Refunded
Bonds to achieve economic savings is consistent with the requirements of Section
165.07 of the Act; and (ii) the issuance of the Series 2020C Bonds for that purpose is
in furtherance of the purposes of the Act and will benefit the people of the County and
of the State. Consistent with Section 165.031, in the resolution authorizing the
Refunded Bonds, the County required that all wages paid to laborers and mechanics
employed on the project financed by the Refunded Bonds be paid at prevailing rates of
wages for the class of work called for, determined in accordance with the requirements
of Ohio Revised Code Chapter 4115.
Section 3.
Authorization of Series 2020C Bonds. It is necessary and
proper and in the best interest of the County to, and the County shall issue the Series
2020C Bonds in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $16,000,000 for the
purpose of providing moneys to refund the Refunded Bonds and pay costs and expenses
relating to the issuance of the Series 2020C Bonds. The Series 2020C Bonds are to be
designated “Taxable Economic Development Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series
2020C (Gateway Arena Project)”, or such other designation as specified in the Final
Terms Certificate. The Series 2020C Bonds shall be payable and secured as provided
herein.
The Series 2020C Bonds may be issued in one or more separate series, each bearing a
distinctive designation, provided that the Series 2020C Bonds of each series satisfy the
requirements of this Resolution and the Indenture. Separate series of Series 2020C
Bonds may be issued at the same or different times. The Series 2020C Bonds of each
series shall be designated as provided in the applicable Final Terms Certificate. A
separate Final Terms Certificate may be delivered for each series. In each case there
shall be included in the costs funded the costs of issuance of the Series 2020C Bonds
and any required deposits to the Special Funds.
Section 4.

Terms and Provisions of Series 2020C Bonds.

(a)
General. The actual principal amount of Series 2020C Bonds to be
issued shall be specified in the Final Terms Certificate. The actual interest rates to be
borne by Series 2020C Bonds shall be determined in the Final Terms Certificate,
provided that the weighted average fixed interest rate shall not exceed 6% per year.

Page 89 of 98

 The Series 2020C Bonds shall be issued pursuant to the terms of the Indenture. The
Series 2020C Bonds (i) shall be issued in Authorized Denominations, as defined in the
Indenture; (ii) shall be dated as provided in the Final Terms Certificate, but not more
than 60 days prior to the Closing Date; (iii) shall bear interest payable on the dates
provided in the Final Terms Certificate; (iv) shall be executed and delivered only in
fully registered form, substantially as set forth in the Sixth Supplemental Trust
Indenture; (v) shall be numbered in a manner determined by the Trustee which will
distinguish each Series 2020C Bond from each other Series 2020C Bond; and (vi) shall
be transferable and exchangeable for fully registered Series 2020C Bonds of the same
series in Authorized Denominations as provided in the Indenture, subject to the
limitations with respect to Series 2020C Bonds in Book Entry Form set forth in the
Sixth Supplemental Trust Indenture.
(b)
Maturity Dates. The Series 2020C Bonds shall mature serially or as term
bonds subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption on such dates in the years and the
respective principal amounts set forth in the Final Terms Certificate. The first principal
payment date (whether by mandatory sinking fund redemption or stated maturity) as
set forth in the Final Terms Certificate and determined to be necessary and advisable
to the issuance and sale of the Series 2020C Bonds once in the best interests and
financial advantages of the County, and the last principal payment date shall not be
later than the latest maturity of the Refunded Bonds.
(c)
Redemption Provisions. (i) The Series 2020C Bonds that may be issued
as term bonds shall be subject to mandatory redemption prior to maturity, pursuant to
the mandatory sinking fund redemption requirements of the Indenture, on such dates in
the years and principal amounts to be specified in the Final Terms Certificate and to be
consistent with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this Section, and (ii) if agreed to
be the Original Purchaser, the Series 2020C Bonds may also be subject to redemption
at the option of the County in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the
Final Terms Certificate and in the Indenture; provided that the redemption price for the
earliest optional redemption date shall not be greater than 102%; provided, however,
that the Final Terms Certificate and the Indenture may provide that the Series 2020C
Bonds are not optionally redeemable prior to maturity if it is determined in the Final
Terms Certificate that such optional redemption would adversely affect the ability of
the County to sell the Series 2020C Bonds at rates of interest acceptable to the County
based on current market conditions for taxable, fixed-interest rate obligations such as
the Series 2020C Bonds. If so designated in the Final Terms Certificate, the Series
2020C Bonds shall also be subject to redemption at the option of the County prior to
their stated maturities at any time in whole or in part on any date, at a redemption price
that will make the holders of such Series 2020C Bonds whole for the early redemption;
if so, then the Final Terms Certificate shall specify the method by which the “make
whole” redemption price shall be determined and shall condition the future exercise of
a “make whole” redemption upon approval by Council after receiving a certification of
the cost of such redemption from the Fiscal Officer. The Series 2020C Bonds shall be
subject to extraordinary redemption prior to maturity, at the option of the County, in
the event of damage or destruction of the Project or other extraordinary events as set
forth in Article III of the Master Indenture.

Page 90 of 98

 (d)
Execution. The Series 2020C Bonds shall be signed by the County
Executive and County Fiscal Officer in the name of the County and in their official
capacities, provided that any or all of those signatures may be facsimiles.
(e)
Other Provisions. The representative of the County signing the Final
Terms Certificate may determine and approve additional provisions with respect to the
Series 2020C Bonds that are not inconsistent with this Resolution and the Indenture
and that are set forth in the Final Terms Certificate or other duly executed certificate,
including without limitation: whether the Series 2020C Bonds shall be secured by the
Bond Reserve Fund and, if so, provisions for funding any additional deposit required
to be made to the Bond Reserve Fund; provisions for credit enhancement or liquidity
support from a municipal bond insurance company or bank or other organization.
Section 5.
Book Entry. The Series 2020C Bonds shall only be issued to a
Depository for use in a Book Entry System and (A) the Series 2020C Bonds shall be
registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee, as Bolder, and immobilized in
the custody of. the Depository; and (B) the Series 2020C Bonds as such shall not be
transferable or exchangeable, except for transfer to another Depository or another
nominee of a Depository and except as otherwise provided in the Indenture. If any
Depository determines not to continue to act as a Depository for the Series 2020C
Bonds for use in a Book Entry System, the County may attempt to have established a
securities depository/book entry system relationship with another qualified Depository
under the Indenture. If the County does not or is unable to do so, the County and the
Trustee, after the Trustee has made provision for notification of the owners of
beneficial interests in Series 2020C Bonds by appropriate notice to the then Depository,
shall permit withdrawal of the Series 2020C Bonds from the Depository, and
authenticate and deliver Bond certificates in fully registered form to the assignees of
the Depository or its nominee. Such withdrawal, authentication and delivery shall be at
the cost and expense (including costs of printing or otherwise preparing, and delivering,
such replacement Series 2020C Bonds) of those persons requesting that authentication
and delivery.
Section 6.
Sale of the Series 2020C Bonds; Official Statement;
Continuing Disclosure.
(a)
Sale of the Series 2020C Bonds. The Series 2020C Bonds are awarded
and sold to the Original Purchaser in accordance with this Resolution and the Final
Terms Certificate. For the purpose of implementing the provisions of this Resolution,
the County Executive or County Fiscal Officer, acting alone or together, each is
authorized and directed to sign the Final Terms Certificate selling the Series 2020C
Bonds to the Original Purchaser at the purchase price established therein; provided that
the purchase price for the Series 2020C Bonds shall be not less than 97% of the
aggregate original offering price to the public, plus any accrued interest on the Series
2020C Bonds. In the event that the Series 2020C Bonds are issued in more than one
Series, the respective Series may be issued at different times, and a separate Final
Terms Certificate may be signed and delivered for each Series. To evidence the sale
and the terms and provisions thereof, the County Executive or County Fiscal Officer,

Page 91 of 98

 acting alone or together, shall sign and deliver the Purchase Agreement for the Series
2020C Bonds in form and substance consistent with the terms of this Resolution which
shall be conclusively evidenced by the execution and delivery thereof by the County
Executive or County Fiscal Officer.
It is hereby determined by this Council that the terms of the Series 2020C Bonds and
the procedures for the sale thereof and the determination of the prices to be paid
therefor, all as established in accordance with this Resolution, the Purchase Agreement
and the Indenture, are and will be in the best interest of the County and in compliance
with all legal requirements, as advised by Bond Counsel.
The County Executive and County Fiscal Officer are directed to make the necessary
arrangements on behalf of the County to establish the date, location, procedure and
conditions for the delivery of the Series 2020C Bonds to the Original Purchaser and to
take all actions necessary to effect due signing, authentication and delivery of the Series
2020C Bonds under the terms of this Resolution, the Purchase Agreement and the
Indenture.
(b)
Official Statement. The County Executive and County Fiscal Officer,
on behalf of the County and in their official capacities, are authorized and directed to
(i) prepare or cause to be prepared, and make or authorize modifications, completions
or changes of or supplements to, a disclosure document in the form of an official
statement relating to the issuance of the Series 2020C Bonds of each series, (ii)
determine, and to certify or otherwise represent, when each official statement is to be
“deemed final” (except for permitted omissions) by the County as of its date or is a
final official statement for purposes of SEC Rule 15c2-12(b)(1), (3) and (4), (iii) use
and distribute, or authorize the use and distribution of preliminary and final official
statements and any supplements thereto in connection with the original issuance of the
Series 2020C Bonds, and (iv) complete and sign those official statements as so
approved together with such certificates, statements or other documents in connection
with the finality, accuracy and completeness of those official statements as they may
deem necessary or appropriate.
(c)
Agreement to Provide Continuing Disclosure. If deemed necessary and
requested by the Original Purchaser, the County shall agree, as the only obligated
person with respect to the Series 2020C Bonds under the Rule, to provide or cause to
be provided such financial information and operating data, financial statements and
notices, in such manner, as may be required for purposes of paragraph (b)(5) of the
Rule. In order to describe and specify certain terms of the County's continuing
disclosure agreement for that purpose, and thereby to implement that agreement,
including provisions for enforcement, amendment and termination, the County
Executive or County Fiscal Officer is authorized to sign and deliver, in the name and
on behalf of the County, the Continuing Disclosure Certificate in form and substance
consistent with the terms of the Resolution as shall be conclusively evidenced by the
execution and delivery thereof. The agreement formed, collectively, by this paragraph
and that Certificate, shall be the County's continuing disclosure agreement for purposes

Page 92 of 98

 of the Rule, and its performance shall be subject to the availability of funds and their
annual appropriation to meet costs the County would be required to incur to perform it.
Section 7.
Allocation of Proceeds of the Series 2020C Bonds. The
proceeds from the sale of the Series 2020C Bonds (including without limitation any
accrued interest thereon) shall be allocated, deposited and credited to the appropriate
funds and accounts therein as set forth in the Final Terms Certificate.
Section 8.
Security for the Series 2020C Bonds. The Series 2020C Bonds
shall be special obligations of the County, and the Bond Service Charges thereon,
together with the Bond Service Charges on any other Series of Bonds issued under the
Indenture, shall be payable equally and ratably solely from the Revenues as defined in
the Indenture (the “Revenues”) being (all captioned terms as defined in the Indenture):
(i) Gateway's Net Revenues, (ii) the Loan Payments, including Primary Loan Payments
and Coverage Loan Payments, (iii) proceeds of any Series of Bonds to be available to
pay Bond Service Charges to the extent set forth in the Supplemental Indenture for that
Series; (iv) Nontax Revenues of the County deposited in the County Pledge Fund, (v)
all money and investments held by the Trustee in the Special Funds to the extent set
forth in the Sixth Supplemental Trust Indenture, (vi) the Arena Bonds PILOT, (vii)
payments made to the County or the Trustee by the City from its non-tax revenues
pursuant to Section 4 of the Two-Party Agreement and deposited in the Auxiliary
Pledge Fund, and (viii) all income and profit from the investment of the foregoing
moneys. The payment of Bond Service Charges on the Series 2020C Bonds, together
with the Bond Service Charges on any other Series of Bonds issued under the Master
Indenture, shall be secured by the Indenture, by the pledge and assignment by the
County to the Trustee under the Indenture of the Revenues and the pledge by the
County under the Indenture of its Nontax Revenues.
The Series 2020C Bonds shall not represent or constitute a general obligation debt, or
pledge of the faith and credit or the taxing power of the County or of the State or of any
political subdivision, county, municipality or other local agency thereof. The Holders
of the Series 2020C Bonds shall not have the right to have excises, ad valorem taxes or
other taxes levied by the Council or the County, or by the State or the taxing authority
of any other political subdivision, for the payment of Bond Service Charges on the
Series 2020C Bonds.
The County has pledged its Nontax Revenues for the payment of Bond Service Charges
on the Bonds, including any other Series of Bonds issued under the Indenture. In
furtherance of that pledge, the County covenants that it shall appropriate in its annual
appropriation measure for each calendar year and shall deposit in the County Pledge
Fund held by the Trustee under the Indenture, Nontax Revenues in an amount sufficient
to pay Bond Service Charges due and payable on the Bonds that year, less any amounts
remaining in the County Pledge Fund after all Bond Service Charges for the prior
calendar year have been paid. The County acknowledges that such covenant is
enforceable by the courts by mandamus pursuant to Revised Code Chapter 165 and the
Indenture.

Page 93 of 98

 Section 9.
Covenant and Agreement of County Regarding Transcript.
In addition to the other covenants and agreements of the County in this Resolution and
the Indenture, the County covenants and agrees that the Clerk, or other appropriate
officer of the County, shall furnish to the Original Purchaser a true transcript of
proceedings, certified by the Clerk or other officer, of (i) all proceedings had with
reference to the issuance of the Series 2020C Bonds and (ii) any other information from
the records of the County which may be necessary or appropriate to determine the
regularity and validity of the issuance of the Series 2020C Bonds.
Section 10. Bond Documents. To provide for the issuance and sale of the
Series 2020C Bonds and the consummation of the transactions contemplated therein
and in this Resolution, the County Executive and County Fiscal Officer are authorized
and directed, for and in the name and on behalf of the County, to execute, acknowledge
and deliver, the Sixth Supplemental Trust Indenture in form and substance consistent
with the terms of this Resolution which shall be conclusively evidenced by the
execution and delivery thereof. The County Executive and County Fiscal Officer are
authorized to enter into any amendments or supplements of the Revolving Loan
Agreement, the Three-Party Agreement, the Two-Party Agreement, the Bed-Tax
Agreement, the Intercreditor and Bailment Agreement or such other agreement or
instrument that may be necessary or appropriate in connection with the issuance of the
Series 2020C Bonds, the refunding of the Refunded Bonds and the securing of the
Series 2020C Bonds as provided in the Indenture and that have been approved by the
County's legal counsel and the officers executing those documents.
This Council determines that it is in the best interest of the County to refund the
Refunded Bonds and to establish an escrow fund to pay principal of and interest on the
Refunded Bonds through their first optional redemption date, and to pay the redemption
price of the Refunded Bonds on such redemption date. The County Fiscal Officer is
authorized and directed to give to the authenticating agent, bond registrar, transfer
agent and paying agent for the Refunded Bonds, on or promptly after the Closing Date,
written notice of the refunding, and the Refunded Bonds shall be defeased in
accordance with the provisions of this Resolution, the Indenture, the Series 2010C
Bonds, the bond legislation authorizing the Series 2010C Bonds and the Escrow
Agreement.
The County Executive and the County Fiscal Officer shall sign and deliver, in
the name and on behalf of the County and in their official capacities, the Escrow
Agreement, in form and substance consistent with the Resolution as shall be
conclusively evidenced by the execution and delivery thereof. The County Fiscal
Officer shall provide for the payment of the services rendered and for reimbursement
of expenses incurred pursuant to the Escrow Agreement, except to the extent paid by
the Original Purchasers in accordance with the Purchase Agreement, from the proceeds
of the Bonds to the extent available and otherwise from other funds lawfully available
and that are appropriated or shall be appropriated for that purpose.
There is created under the Escrow Agreement a trust fund designated the
“County of Cuyahoga Refunded 2010C Bonds Escrow Fund” that shall be held and

Page 94 of 98

 maintained by the Escrow Trustee in trust for the registered owners of the Refunded
Bonds and is pledged for the payment of principal of and interest on the Refunded
Bonds, all in accordance with the provisions of the Escrow Agreement. The County
Fiscal Officer is hereby authorized and directed to pay to the Escrow Trustee for deposit
in the Escrow Fund (i) any available funds on deposit in the Bond Retirement Fund for
the payment of debt charges on the Refunded Bonds determined by the County Fiscal
Officer to be applied for that purpose, (ii) any funds available for such payment in the
Bond Reserve Fund or other funds or accounts established in connection with the
issuance of the Refunded Bonds pursuant to the Indenture, and (iii) proceeds from the
sale of the Series 2020C Bonds, except any accrued interest and any proceeds to be
used for the payment of any expenses properly allocable to the refunding of the
Refunded Bonds or the issuance of the Series 2020C Bonds as determined by the
County Fiscal Officer, in the amount required, together with the funds referred to in (i),
to provide for the defeasance of the Refunded Bonds. The funds and proceeds so paid
to the Escrow Trustee are appropriated and shall be applied to pay principal of and
interest on the Refunded Bonds, as provided in the Escrow Agreement.
The funds so deposited in the Escrow Fund shall be (a) held in cash to the extent
that they are not needed to make the investments hereinafter described and (b) invested
in direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed as to payment by, the United States
of America (within the meaning of Section 133.34(D) of the Revised Code) that mature
or are subject to redemption by and at the option of the holder, in amounts sufficient,
together with any uninvested cash in the Escrow Fund but without further investment
or reinvestment, for the payment of (i) interest when due on the Refunded Bonds
following the date of issuance of the Series 2020C Bonds through and including their
call for redemption, and (ii) the principal of the Refunded Bonds upon their redemption
by optional redemption as provided in the Escrow Agreement.
If U.S. Treasury Securities -- State and Local Government Securities are to be
purchased for the Escrow Fund, the County Fiscal Officer, the Escrow Trustee and the
Financial Advisor, or any of them individually, are hereby specifically authorized to
file, on behalf of the County, subscriptions for the purchase and issuance of those U.S.
Treasury Securities - State and Local Government Securities. If, in the judgment of the
County Fiscal Officer, an open-market purchase of obligations described in (b) in the
preceding paragraph for the Escrow Fund is in the best interest of and financially
advantageous to this County, the County Fiscal Officer or any other officer of the
County, on behalf of the County and in his official capacity, may purchase and deliver
such obligations, engage the services of a financial advisor, bidding agent or similar
entity for the purpose of facilitating the bidding, purchase and delivery of such
obligations for, and any related structuring of, the Escrow Fund, execute such
instruments as are deemed necessary to engage such services for such purpose, and
provide further for the payment of the cost of obtaining such services, except to the
extent paid by the Original Purchasers in accordance with the Purchase Agreement,
from the proceeds of the Series 2020C Bonds to the extent available and otherwise from
any other funds lawfully available and that are appropriated or shall be appropriated

Page 95 of 98

 for that purpose. Any actions heretofore taken by any of those officers in connection
with the foregoing are hereby ratified and approved.
This Council further authorizes and directs the County Fiscal Officer to retain,
on behalf of the County, the services of an independent public accounting firm to
perform a verification of the sufficiency of amounts in the Escrow Fund to cause the
Refunded Bonds to be deemed defeased as described in the Indenture.
Section 11. Authorization of Bond Rating; Credit Enhancement. If, in
the judgment of the County Executive or County Fiscal Officer, the filing of an
application for (i) a rating on the Series 2020C Bonds by one or more nationally
recognized rating agencies, (ii) a policy of insurance or other credit enhancement
facility from a company or companies to better assure the payment of principal of and
interest on the Series 2020C Bonds is in the best interest of and financially
advantageous to the County, such determination shall be set forth in the Final Terms
Certificate, and the County Executive or County Fiscal Officer is hereby authorized to
prepare and submit any or all of those applications, to provide such information as may
be required in support thereof and to provide further for the payment of the cost of such
a rating or policy from funds to be appropriated for the purpose if and to the extent that
such payment shall not be made by the Original Purchaser from the proceeds of the
Series 2020C Bonds.
Section 12. Bond Counsel. This Council hereby retains the legal services of
McDonald Hopkins LLC, as Bond Counsel to the County, in connection with the
authorization, sale, issuance and delivery of the Series 2020C Bonds and the refunding
of the Refunded Bonds, pursuant to the authority in Ohio Revised Code Section 165.02.
In providing those legal services, as an independent contractor and in an attorney-client
relationship, Bond Counsel shall not exercise any administrative discretion on behalf
of the County in the formulation of public policy, expenditure of public funds,
enforcement of laws, rules and regulations of the State, or of the County, or of any other
political subdivision of the State, or the execution of public trusts.
Section 13. Other Documents. The County Executive, the County Fiscal
Officer, the Director of Law, County Prosecutor, the Clerk, or such other officials of
the County, as appropriate, are authorized and directed to (i) execute any documents,
agreements (including an intercreditor agreement or amendment if necessary),
certifications, financing statements, assignments and instruments which are necessary
or appropriate to perfect the assignments set forth in the Indenture and to carry out the
transactions contemplated in this Resolution, the Indenture, the Purchase Agreement,
the Revolving Loan Agreement, the Three-Party Agreement, the Two-Party
Agreement, the Bed Tax Agreement, and the Intercreditor and Bailment Agreement.
Section 14. Severability. Each section of this Resolution and each
subdivision or paragraph of any section thereof is declared to be independent and the
finding or holding of any section or any subdivision or paragraph of any section thereof
to be invalid or void shall not be deemed or held to affect the validity of any other
section, subdivision or paragraph of this Bond Legislation.

Page 96 of 98

 Section 15. Compliance with Open Meeting Requirements. It is found
and determined that all formal actions of this Council concerning and relating to the
adoption of this Resolution were adopted in an open meeting of this Council, and that
all deliberations of this Council and of any of its committees that resulted in those
formal actions, were in meetings open to the public in compliance with the law.
Section 16. Effective Date. It is necessary that this Resolution become
immediately effective for the usual daily operation of the County; the preservation of
public peace, health, or safety in the County; and any additional reasons set forth in the
preamble. Provided that this Resolution receives the affirmative vote of at least eight
members of Council, it shall take effect and be in force immediately upon the earliest
occurrence of any of the following: (i) its approval by the County Executive through
signature, (ii) the expiration of the time during which it may be disapproved by the
County Executive under Section 3.10(6) of the Charter, or (iii) its passage by at least
eight members of Council after disapproval pursuant to Section 3.10(7) of the Charter.
Otherwise, it shall take effect and be in force from and after the earliest period allowed
by law.
On a motion by ___________, seconded by __________, the foregoing Resolution was
duly adopted.
Yeas:
Nays:

_________________________
County Council President

__________
Date

_________________________
County Executive

__________
Date

_________________________
Clerk of Council

__________
Date

First Reading/Referred to Committee: November 26, 2019
Committee(s) Assigned: Finance & Budgeting
Bond Counsel: McDonald Hopkins LLC

Page 97 of 98

 Legislation Substituted in Committee: December 9, 2019
Journal ______
_______, 2019

Page 98 of 98

 