BOARD OF ETHICS

OPEN SESSION MINUTES

OCTOBER 29, 2019, 12:09 P.M.
740 North Sedgwick, Suite 500

BOARD MEMBERS PRESENT
William F. Conlon, Chair
Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson
David L. Daskal
Dr. Daisy S. Lezama
Hon. Barbara McDonald
BOARD MEMBERS ABSENT
Zaid Abdul-Aleem
Nancy C. Andrade

I.

STAFF PRESENT
Steven I. Berlin, Executive Director
Lisa S. Eilers, Deputy Director
Richard Superfine, Legal Counsel
Ana Collazo, Attorney/Investigator
Edward Primer, Program Director
Paully Casillas, Staff Administrator
GUESTS ATTENDING
Heather Cherone, The Daily Line

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
The Board VOTED 4-0 (Zaid Abdul-Aleem, Nancy C. Andrade and Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson, absent)
to approve the open session minutes, as amended, of the Board’s meeting of September 13, 2019.

II.

CHAIR’S REPORT
The Chair commented that the large amount of work that the staff and Board members have
completed in recent months is impressive, and shows that the Board is taking its work seriously,
and he expressed the hope that the public and media will notice how important upholding the
standards in the Governmental Ethics Ordinance are to the Board and to the Mayor.

III.

MEMBERS’ REPORTS
None

IV.

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR’S REPORT
A.

Amendments to the Ordinance
As was widely reported, amendments to the Governmental Ethics Ordinance were passed in
late July by the City Council. They grant jurisdiction to the Office of Inspector General (“IG”)
over all City Council committees and give the IG authority to audit these committees (a
question raised at the Committee hearing was whether the IG could audit individual
aldermen, a question to which I do not know the answer), and commence investigations
with or without a complaint, and enable the IG to commence investigations based on

 Open Session Minutes
October 29, 2019
Page 2
anonymous complaints; (ii) enable the IG to work with the Law Department to enforce its
own subpoenas; (iii) enable the IG to investigate ethics violations that occurred not more
than five (5) years after the most recent alleged bad act, as opposed to two (2) years under
current law; (iv) amend the definition of lobbyist so that a person who lobbies on behalf of
any non-profit would need to register if compensated for this activity, or undertakes to
lobby on behalf of any non-profit as a matter of professional engagement, even if pro bono,
but would also enable the Board to waive the registration fees for lobbyists who are paid
but lobby only on behalf of a single 501(c)(3) non-profit; (v) prohibit alderman and other
City elected officials and employees from representing or deriving any income or other
tangible benefit from the representation of persons in any judicial or quasi-judicial
proceedings (a) where the City is an adverse party; or (b) that may result in an adverse
effect on City revenue or finances, or the health, safety, welfare or relative tax burden of any
City residents; (vi) prohibit City employees and officials from deriving income from
providing opinion evidence against the City; and (vii) raise the maximum fine for ethics
violations (other than for late filing or late training or late lobbyist registration) to $5,000,
from the current $2,000. (This Board had recommended, among many other things, that the
maximum fines be raised to $20,000.)
The IG provisions and penalty provision took effect on September 28; the representation
provisions take effect on December 17, 2019, and the non-profit lobbying provisions take
effect on January 1, 2020.
We have posted on our website a color-coded version of the Ordinance showing all changes
made since January 2018.

B.

Education
Classes and Other Presentations
Since the Board’s last regularly scheduled meeting, 167 employees and officials have
attended classes conducted here on September 19 and 26, and October 8, 17 and 29. 60 are
scheduled for classes here on November 5, 14 and 19.
All Board classes cover sexual harassment.
On October 2, staff presented a 90-minute ethics training class to employees from the
Civilian Office of Police Accountability (“COPA”) at the invitation of its Executive Director.
On October 4, staff presented two 90-minute seminars to more than 80 representatives
from non-profit agencies located in greater Chicago, to discuss the amendments to the
lobbying laws that take effect on January 1, 2020. The classes were held at Forefront
Chicago, at the invitation of its Policy Director. We were grateful for the opportunity. On
October 30, we will make a similar presentation at the YMCA, at the invitation of its Senior
Director of Government Relations.
On October 9, I appeared in a TV interview with two journalists from Pristina, Kosovo,
talking about the Board’s work. I am to be notified when the segment airs in Kosovo and
hope its producers will send over a YouTube link. One of the journalists had visited our
office in June 2017!

 Open Session Minutes
October 29, 2019
Page 3
On October 11 I spoke on campaign financing at the ABA’s State and Local Government
Section’s Fall CLE Conference, in St. Paul, MN. This program will be repeated in a live
webcast on January 27, 2020.
On October 17, I appeared with former State Senator Daniel Biss and Common Cause
Executive Director Jay Young at a Public Newsroom, hosted by City Bureau. This was at the
invitation of Daniel Wolk.
On October 28, we will present a class to a BACP employee who was the subject of an
Inspector General investigation, at her department’s request.
On November 12 and 14, we will present classes to two new aldermen and their staff, 39th
Ward Alderman Samantha Nugent and 33rd Ward Alderman Rossana Rodriguez Sanchez,
respectively.
On November 20, I will present a class to the members of the Board of Health, at the request
of its Chair.
On January 10, I will make a presentation to the Chicago Bar Association’s Election Law
Committee, at the invitation of its Chair.
We are scheduling two classes: the first, on campaign financing and political contributions,
for contract specialists in the Department of Procurement Services, at the request of the
Chief Procurement Officer (that office has been helpful in identifing potential campaign
financing law violations in the past); the second, on political activity, for employees of the
Department of Aviation, at its Commissioner’s request.
On-line Training
For appointed officials
We completed a PowerPoint for all appointed officials, including members of this
Board, and will email it to all appointed officials, and have them complete it, with the
Assistance of the Office of Legislative Counsel and Government Affairs (which is
responsible for coordinating the appointments of all Mayoral appointees/appointed
officials).
For all employees and aldermen
To date, approximately 9,600 employees and 2 aldermen have completed the program.
234 are in progress.

C.

Council on Governmental Ethics Laws (“COGEL”)
COGEL’s 2019 annual conference will be here in Chicago, at the Michigan Avenue Marriott
from December 15-18. We are working closely with the Mayor’s Office, City Council, and
Budget Office to ensure a successful conference. We expect about 450 ethics, campaign
financing, lobbying, freedom of information, and election administration officials from
across the U.S. and Canada to attend, plus private practitioners and academics. We serve on
the conference’s program committee and have already reached out to various elected and
appointed officials, attorneys, public figures, and media personnel to serve on panel
discussions or otherwise contribute to the Conference. We will co-host the Conference with

 Open Session Minutes
October 29, 2019
Page 4
our colleagues at the Illinois State Board of Elections, and possibly other local agencies
involved in ethics or freedom of information administration.
As President-elect of COGEL, I also serve on the Program and Host committees, and
continue to Chair the Publications committee. The 2019 Conference is an opportunity to
showcase our agency, our mission, and our ethics, campaign financing, lobbying, and
election programs. And, I am hoping that our Board members will lend support to make the
41st Conference nonpareil.

D.

Executive Editorship – Public Integrity/Guardian Issue
I am a member of the Executive Editorial Board of the journal Public Integrity, which is
affiliated with the American Society for Public Administration. It is published by Taylor &
Francis six (6) times a year. We are in the midst of a joint project between this journal and
the COGEL Guardian to bridge gaps between academics and practitioners. The first edition
of the 2019 COGEL Guardian was published on May 31, and the second on August 27. The
next issue will be published around November 15.

E.

Sister Agency Ethics Officers
We met on October 17 with our ethics counterparts at other local governmental agencies:
the Cook County Board of Ethics and the Ethics Officers from the Chicago Public Schools,
Chicago Park District, Chicago Transit Authority, City Colleges of Chicago, the Cook County
Assessor’s Office, and Chicago Housing Authority.

F.

2020 Budget
Our budget allocation for 2020 is $873,629 (subject to City Council approval). This
represents a .008% increase over our 2019 allocation. We will have our budget hearing this
coming Friday, November 1.

G.

Advisory Opinions
Since the Board’s last meeting on September 13, we have issued 572 informal advisory
opinions. The leading categories were, in descending order: Gifts; Travel; Lobbying;
Conflicts of Interest/Improper Influence; Outside Employment (including outside volunteer
service); Political Activity; and City Property.
The leading City departments from which requesters came in this period were (in
descending order): Chicago Police Department; Mayor’s Office; City Council; Department of
Buildings; Department of Public Health; and Procurement Services; and Chicago Public
Library.
Informal opinions are not made public but are logged, kept, and used for training and future
advisory purposes. (This same practice occurs with our colleagues at the New York City
Conflicts of Interest Board, which issues roughly the same number of informal opinions.)
They form the basis for much of our annual and periodic educational programs. Formal

 Open Session Minutes
October 29, 2019
Page 5
opinions are made public, in full text, with names and other identifying information
redacted out.

H.

Summary Index of Formal Advisory Opinions/Text of all Formal Advisory
Opinions
Every formal Board opinion issued since 1986 is posted on the Board’s website (more than
906 of them), redacted in accordance with the Ordinance’s confidentiality provisions.
Redacted opinions are posted once issued by or reported to the Board. Further, summaries
and keywords for each of these opinions are available on the Board’s searchable index of
opinions. Only a handful of other ethics agencies have comparable research tools.
We are unaware of jurisdictions that make their informal opinions public—though others
issue them confidentially and enable requesters to rely on them in the event of an
investigation or enforcement.

I.

Waivers
Since July 1, 2013, the Board has had authority to grant waivers from certain provisions in
the Ethics Ordinance. The Board has granted three (3), each involving a former City
employee. By law, we make these waivers public.

J.

Summary Index of Board-Initiated Regulatory Actions/Adjudications/pre2013 Investigations
We post the summary index of all investigations, enforcement and regulatory actions
undertaken by the Board since its inception in 1986 (other than those for violations of filing
or training requirements or campaign financing matters). It includes an ongoing summary
of all regulatory actions the Board undertook without an IG investigation.
The Board makes public the names of all violators and penalties it assesses where
authorized by law to do so. There have been, to date, 125 such matters (including five (5)
on today’s agenda), but only in those that occurred after July 1, 2013 can the Board release
the names of those found to have violated the Governmental Ethics Ordinance. Since July 1,
2013, alone, there have been 53 such matters.

K.

Summary Index of Ongoing IG/LIG Investigations/Adjudications
We post and continually update, on our website, an ongoing investigative record showing
the status of every completed investigative report brought to the Board by both the IG (a
total of nine (9) since July 1, 2013, the last of which is on today’s agenda for a finding of
probable cause) and the former Office of the Legislative Inspector General (“LIG”), since
January 1, 2012, and the status of all 50 petitions to commence investigations presented to
the Board by the LIG. It is updated as appropriate, consistent with the Ordinance’s
confidentiality provisions.
Whenever the IG presents the Board with a completed ethics investigation in which the IG

 Open Session Minutes
October 29, 2019
Page 6
believes there have been violations of the Governmental Ethics Ordinance, the procedure
that follows is governed by §2-156-385(3) and (4) of the Ordinance: the Board reviews the
IG’s report, recommendations, and the entirety of the evidence submitted in its completed
ethics investigation, including a review to ensure that the IG conformed with the
requirement that it complete ethics investigations within two (2) years of commencing
them (unless there is evidence that the subject took affirmative action to conceal evidence
or delay the investigation), and that ethics investigations were commenced within five (5)
years of the last alleged act of misconduct.
Then, if the Board finds that the evidence presented warrants a prima facie finding of
probable cause to believe the subject violated the Ordinance, it notifies the subject of the
allegations and affords the subject the opportunity to present written submissions and meet
with the Board, together with an attorney or other representative present. The Ordinance
provides that this meeting is ex parte – no one from the City’s Law Department or IG is
present. Note that the Board may request clarification from the IG as to any evidence
adduced in its investigation before making a probable cause finding (and indeed has done
so). The Board cannot administer oaths at this meeting but can and does assess the subject’s
credibility and the validity and weight of any evidence the subject provides.
If the subject is unable to rebut the Board’s prima facie probable cause finding, the Board
may enter into a settlement agreement – all settlement agreements are made public – or the
Board or subject may decide to proceed to a merits hearing that is not open to the public.
That hearing would be held before an administrative law judge (ALJ) appointed by the
Department of Administrative Hearings. The City would be represented by the Law
Department (or a specially hired Assistant Corporation Counsel for that purpose), and the
subject by his or her attorney. At the conclusion of the hearing, the ALJ submits his or her
findings of fact and law to the Board, which can accept or reject them, based solely on the
written record of the hearing. The Board will then issue a public opinion in which it finds
one or more violations of the Ethics Ordinance (or finds none) and impose appropriate
fines.
This process may seem cumbersome. However, it was added to the Ordinance and became
effective on July 1, 2013, based on specific recommendations of Mayor Emanuel’s Ethics
Reform Task Force in Part II of its 2012 Report – the primary purposes being: (i)to
guarantee due process for all those investigated by the IG (or former LIG); (ii) to ensure that
only the Board of Ethics could make determinations as to whether a person investigated by
the IG or LIG violated the Ordinance, given the Board’s extensive jurisprudence and unique
expertise in ethics matters; and (iii) to balance due process for those investigated by the IG
with an accurate and precise adjudication by the Board of Ethics and the public’s right to
know of ethics violations.
On our website, we have a publication that describes this process in detail:
https://www.chicago.gov/content/dam/city/depts/ethics/general/Publications/EnforcePr
ocedures.pdf
There is one (1) new IG matter, presented to us on September 4. It involves potential
violations of the Ordinance’s post-employment, prohibited conduct, confidential
information, and conflicts of interest provisions. Staff will make its recommendation as to a
preliminary probable cause finding at today’s meeting.
Please note finally that, in all matters adjudicated or settled on or after July 1, 2013, the
Board makes public the names of all violators and penalties assessed, or a complete copy of
the settlement agreement.

 Open Session Minutes
October 29, 2019
Page 7

L.

Disclosures of Past Violations
July 2013 amendments to the Ordinance provide that, when a person seeks advice from the
Board about past conduct, and discloses to the Board facts leading it to conclude that he or
she committed a past violation of the Ordinance, the Board must determine whether that
violation was minor or non-minor. If it was minor, the Board, by law, sends the person a
confidential letter of admonition. If it was non-minor, then, under current law, the person is
advised that he or she may self-report to the IG or, if he or she fails to do so within two (2)
weeks, the Board must make that report.
Since the time this provision (§2-156-070(b)) became effective on July 1, 2013, the Board
has advised three (3) aldermen, two (2) aldermanic staffers, one (1) mid-level City
employee in an operating department, one (1) department head and one (1) former
department head that their past conduct violated the Ordinance. In three (3) of these cases,
one (1) involving an alderman, the second an aldermanic staffer, and the third a former
department head, the Board concluded that the apparent violations were not minor or
technical, and the aldermen and aldermanic staff self-reported to the former LIG, and the
former department head self-reported to the IG. Since the time that all matters involving
the former LIG were consolidated with the IG, the IG has informed us that it has no record
that the LIG ever commenced an investigation in the matter involving the alderman, and
that the matter involving the aldermanic staff was closed, apparently without further
investigation by the LIG.
As noted above, the Board received a completed investigative report from the IG on May 26,
2017, with a petition for a probable cause finding. The case was based on the Board’s earlier
conclusion that the subject appeared to have committed a non-minor past violation of the
Ordinance, then advised the subject of the self-reporting-to-the-IG provisions in the
Ordinance. After the IG investigated and confirmed the Board’s earlier conclusion, the
matter was settled for a $1,500 fine. The agreement is posted on our website.
In the three (3) cases in which the Board determined that minor violations had occurred,
the Board sent confidential letters of admonition, as required by Ordinance.

M.

Lobbyists-Regulation and Enforcement
To date for 2019, there are 789 registered lobbyists. We have collected $448,950 in lobbyist
registration fees—representing more than 50% of our annual budget.
Third Quarter lobbying activity reports were due before the close of business Monday,
October 21. To date, 23 lobbyists have not filed them, which is a 97% compliance rate. By
law, we will notify those who haven’t filed, and if they do not file by the statutorily
mandated period, find them in violation of the Ordinance, fine them $1,000 per day until
they do file, and make their names and violations public.
Note that we discovered a recent glitch in the ELF (Electronic Lobbyist Filing) system,
whereby the compensation reported by lobbyists for the second, third and fourth quarter is
combined with compensation reported in previous quarters, and then posted erroneously
into the public interface of the program, which is on a SOCRATA platform. We are
continuing to work with programmers at the Department of Innovation and Technology to
fix this problem.

 Open Session Minutes
October 29, 2019
Page 8

N.

Freedom of Information Act
Since the last regularly scheduled Board meeting, the office has received four (4) new
requests under the Freedom of Information Act. The first request was for records over
many years involving a City employee. After exchanging emails about the requestor
narrowing the request, this agency advised the requestor it had no records responsive to
the request. The second request was for subpoenas received by the Board since 2016 and
this agency provided the sole subpoena received, and the materials turned over in response
thereto. The third request was for lobbyist records of Hunter Biden and this agency advised
that it had no such records. The fourth request was for City actions involving a parcel of real
estate, and this agency responded by advising the requestor that the Board was the wrong
department to which to send a FOIA.

V.

PUBLIC COMMENTS
None

VI.

OLD BUSINESS
None

VII.

NEW BUSINESS
1.

Semi-Annual Review of Confidentiality of Executive Session Minutes under the Illinois Open
Meetings Act

2.

Approval of Schedule of Board Meetings in 2020
Board members VOTED 4-0 (Zaid Abdul-Aleem, Nancy C. Andrade and Dr. Stephanie CoxBatson, absent) to adopt staff’s recommendation: (i) to retain confidentiality of the Board’s
Executive Session minutes; and (ii) to publicly post the 2020 Board meeting schedule as
proposed.

At 12:20 p.m., the Board VOTED 4-0 (Zaid Abdul-Aleem, Nancy C. Andrade and Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson,
absent) to adjourn into Executive Session under: (i) 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(1) to discuss the appointment,
employment, compensation, discipline, performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public body
or legal counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an
employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public body to determine its validity. However,
a meeting to consider an increase in compensation to a specific employee of a public body that is subject to
the Local Government Wage Increase Transparency Act may not be closed and shall be open to the public
and posted and held in accordance with this Act; (ii) 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(4) to hear and discuss evidence or
testimony in closed hearing as specifically authorized pursuant to Governmental Ethics Ordinance Sections
2-156-385 and -392, and the Board’s Rules and Regulations, as amended, effective January 5, 2017,
presented to a quasi-adjudicative body, as defined in the Illinois Open Meetings Act, provided that the body
prepares and makes available for public inspection a written decision setting forth its determinative
reasoning; and (iii) 5 ILCS 120/2(c)(21) to discuss minutes of meetings lawfully closed under this Act,

 Open Session Minutes
October 29, 2019
Page 9
whether for purposes of approval by the body of the minutes or semi-annual review of the minutes as
mandated by Section 2.06.
At 2:06 p.m., the Board VOTED 4-0 (Zaid Abdul-Aleem, Nancy C. Andrade and Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson,
absent) to reconvene into open session.
The guest joined the open session of the meeting.
MATTER CONSIDERED BY THE BOARD IN EXECUTIVE SESSION

VIII.

APPROVAL OF THE EXECUTIVE SESSION MINUTES
The Board confirmed its discussion in executive session, VOTING 4-0 (Zaid Abdul-Aleem, Nancy C.
Andrade and Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson, absent) in open session, to approve the executive session
minutes, of the September 13, 2019 meeting.

IX.

CASEWORK
A.

Request for Reconsideration of Notice of Violation after Board Meeting with
Respondent following Probable Cause Finding Pursuant to §2-156-245 of the
Governmental Ethics Ordinance
1.

Case No. 19018.C.1, Unregistered Lobbying
The Board VOTED 4-0 (Zaid Abdul-Aleem, Nancy C. Andrade and Dr. Stephanie CoxBatson, absent) to deny the Respondent’s Request for Reconsideration of the Board’s
determination, made at its September 13, 2019 meeting, that he violated the
Ordinance by engaging in several acts of unregistered lobbying, never registered with
the Board, and that the $25,000 fine stands. The Board directed staff to inform the
Respondent’s Counsel that payment of the fine is due December 2, 2019, and if
payment is not made by then, to pursue collection of the fine through the Law
Department.

B.

Consideration of Probable Cause Finding re: Retaining and Employing an
Unregistered Lobbyist in Violation of §2-156-305 of the Governmental Ethics
Ordinance
2.

Case No. 19018.L.E., Retaining and Employing an Unregistered Lobbyist
The Board VOTED 4-0 (Zaid Abdul-Aleem, Nancy C. Andrade and Dr. Stephanie CoxBatson, absent) to determine that there is probable cause to conclude that the person
who hired or retained the individual who is the subject of Case No. 19018.C.1 also
violated the Ordinance by hiring or retaining an unregistered lobbyist, and to notify
the person in writing of this finding. The written notification approved by the Board
enables the person to meet with the Board and attempt to rebut the Board’s probable
cause finding, and, if that attempt is unsuccessful, the Board would make a final

 Open Session Minutes
October 29, 2019
Page 10
determination of a violation and could fine the subject between $500 and $2,000 for
the violation.
C.

Request for Consideration of Advisory Opinion
3.

Case No. 19027.A, Practice of Criminal Defense Law by Alderman
The Board VOTED 4-0 (Zaid Abdul-Aleem, Nancy C. Andrade and Dr. Stephanie CoxBatson, absent) to deny the Request for Reconsideration of the Board’s Advisory
Opinion, issued September 13, 2019, informing the subject that the Governmental
Ethics Ordinance (as well as the Rules of Professional Conduct for Illinois Attorneys,
promulgated by the Illinois Supreme Court) prohibit aldermen from representing or
receiving any income or compensation from the representation of defendants in
criminal cases involving personnel from the Chicago Police Department. The Board
directed staff to send the letter explaining the reasons for the denial to the subject’s
attorney, and post it, in redacted form, on the Board’s website.

D.

Consideration of Staff’s Report on Matter Provided to the Board by the Office of
Inspector General Pursuant to §§2-156-385(1)-(3) of the Governmental Ethics
Ordinance
4.

Case No. 19029.IG, Post-Employment, Confidential Information, Conflicts of Interest
The Board VOTED 4-0 (Zaid Abdul-Aleem, Nancy C. Andrade and Dr. Stephanie CoxBatson, absent) to determine that there was probable cause to believe that, while still
employed with the City, a now former City employee violated the Governmental Ethics
Ordinance’s prohibited conduct, §2-156-111(c), and conflict of interests provisions,
§2-156-080(a), by negotiating future employment with someone that had a matter
pending. The Board also voted that the former City employee violated the Ordinance’s
one-year and permanent post-employment restrictions, §2-156-100(b), after leaving
City employment by continuing to work on matters to which those restrictions
applied.

E.

Consideration of Board-initiated action for Probable Cause Findings and for Board
Decision to Refer a Matter Based on Publicly Available Documents
5-7. Case Nos. 19030.C.1; 19030.C.2; 190303.C.3, Improper Influence, Conflicts of
Interest/Appearance of Impropriety
Based on public documents available to the Board, the Board VOTED 4-0 (Zaid AbdulAleem, Nancy C. Andrade and Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson, absent) to determine that
there is probable cause to conclude that an elected official violated the Ordinance’s
improper influence provision, §2-156-030(b), by contacting other City employees and
officials in one matter, and voting in City Council (and not filing an abstention with the
Board) regarding a separate matter, each involving persons from whom the official,
through a law firm in which the official was a partner at all relevant times, received
compensation in the 12 months prior to the contact or the vote, or reasonably
expected to receive compensation in the 12 months following the contact or the vote.

 Open Session Minutes
October 29, 2019
Page 11
In a third matter, the Board VOTED 4-0 (Zaid Abdul-Aleem, Nancy C. Andrade and Dr.
Stephanie Cox-Batson, absent) that, based upon a news article, which disclosed that
the same elected official may have contacted City employees or officials on a matter
involving persons from whom the official may have received compensation in the 12
months prior to the contact, or reasonably expected to receive compensation in the 12
months following the contact, it has insufficient facts from which it could determine
that there is probable cause to conclude this same official may have violated the
Ordinance. Thus, the Board voted to refer this matter to the Office of Inspector
General and request that that office investigate the facts surrounding this matter to
assist the Board in determining whether there is probable cause to conclude the
elected official violated §2-156-030(b).
The matters are being handled separately, as they involve different persons and the
elected official’s actions were different in each case.
In the first two matters, the elected official is entitled to meet confidentially with the
Board and/or present arguments, documents, or materials to the Board in order to
rebut the probable cause findings. Fines for violations of these sections range between
$500-$2,000 for each, separate offense.
F.

Consideration of Draft Advisory Opinion: Campaign Financing: Request for
Interpretation of §2-156-445(d), “knowledge of the violation”
8.

Case No. 19032.A, Campaign Financing
The Board, after considerable discussion, determined it would decline to issue an
advisory opinion in this matter.

G.

Status Report of Campaign Financing Refunds after Issuance of Probable Cause
Notices
9.
10.
11.

Case No. 19028.01.CF, Excessive Campaign Financing Contribution
Case No. 19028.02.CF, Excessive Campaign Financing Contribution
Case No. 19028.03.CF, Excessive Campaign Financing Contribution
Staff reported to the Board that refunds of excessive campaign contributions have
been effected in all three matters.

H.

Report on Dismissed or Referred Complaint
12.

Case No. 19031.C, No Jurisdiction
Staff reported that on October 7, 2019, the Board received a letter from a private
citizen, who, apart from contesting a parking ticket, wanted to file a formal complaint
for disciplinary action against a Chicago Police Officer. Since the Board does not have
the jurisdiction or authority to investigate, under §2-156-380(a) of the Ordinance, we
referred the complaint to the Police Department’s Office of Internal Affairs for action
as it deems appropriate.

 Open Session Minutes
October 29, 2019
Page 12
At 2:19 p.m., the Board VOTED 4-0 (Zaid Abdul-Aleem, Nancy C. Andrade and Dr. Stephanie Cox-Batson,
absent) to adjourn the meeting.
bd-minutes-12-6-19-os-f

 