STAFF REPORT: 12-11-2019 MEETING
APPLICATION NUMBER: 19-6525
ADDRESS: 2475 CHICAGO
HISTORIC DISTRICT: BOSTON EDISON
APPLICANT: MARTIN LEGER, CENTRAL DWELLING CORP.
DATE OF COMPLETE APPLICATION: 10/17/2019

PREPARED BY: A. DYE

SCOPE: DEMOLISHED REAR PORCH, ERECTION OF NEW PORCH
EXISTING CONDITIONS
The house at 2475 Chicago was constructed in 1923 and reflects a transitional style of Greek and
Colonial Revival influences, including a low pitched reverse gable roof, a large entry porch supported
by multiple corner columns, and wide bands of trim beneath the cornice of the main roof and porch roof.
The clear lower sash of the double-hung windows, central dormer with a shed roof, minimally detailed
capitals and pedestals on the front porch columns, and ganged windows adds details reflecting its 1920s
construction.

The applicant stated the balcony on the rear porch collapsed a few years ago and removed it without
prior HDC approval. Evidence of the porch remains through the upper porch pilasters, the holes in the
brick where the joists were secured, and the shadow lines left from the stairs and past painting projects.

 PROPOSAL
The applicant would like to build a new porch in the same location and match the design of a neighbor’s
porch which is shown below. The stairs would extend from the porch into the rear yard. Four-by-four
posts would support the upper balcony; the first and second floor balusters (36-inches in height) would
have a turned spindle design (catalog cut included in staff report). The applicant did not supply a catalog
cut for the balustrade. While the railing shows a white finish, the applicant didn’t state if, or how, the
full porch would be painted.

 STAFF OBSERVATIONS AND RESEARCH
From the ghost images on the brick, the original porch stairs led to the driveway, at a right angle to the
house. There is also evidence (through the protected brick spanning the area below the door and ghost
lines of paint), the first floor porch may have likely extended left under the window, similar to the
example submitted of the neighbor’s house.

ISSUES
Although the submitted drawings would not typically be considered sufficient to convey the applicant’s
proposal, in this case, the applicant did work with HDC staff in an effort to provide adequate
documentation but was ultimately unable to do so. It is staff’s opinion that the applicant should research
standard porch plans to confirm the method of construction and necessary dimensions.
RECOMMENDATION
It is staff’s opinion the demolition of the previous porch did result in the removal of historic materials
and the alteration of features and spaces that characterize the property. While the drawings submitted
are not typically considered sufficient for review, the submission of the photograph of the neighbor's
porch is sufficient to show the overarching design concept. As the remaining details on the applicant’s
house support a similar design and layout, staff recommends the Commission issue a COA for the
following project as it meets the Secretary of the Interiors Standards for Rehabilitation, especially
Standard #6:
Deteriorated historic features shall be repaired rather than replaced. When the severity of
deterioration requires replacement of a distinctive feature, the new feature shall match the old
in design, color, texture and other visual qualities and, where possible, materials. Replacement
of missing features shall be substantiated by documentary, physical, or pictorial evidence.

 However, staff recommends the following conditions be attached to the issuance of the COA:
 The applicant will submit construction documents for the proposed design as required
for permitting.
 The applicant will submit catalog cuts for a baluster and balustrade that is sympathetic
to the rectilinear nature of the front porch columns and the overall design of the house
(i.e., the submitted turned baluster is a traditional colonial revival design).
 The horizontal porch decking and stairs will have a dark brown stain, while all vertical
porch elements (columns, baluster/balustrade, fascia, etc.) will be painted white.
 The wood will be left exposed for a minimum of six months to allow time for it to dry
before painting.
Plans, photographs and specifications, required to meet the above conditions shall be submitted to staff
for review.

 SEC. 25-2-126. BOSTON-EDISON HISTORIC DISTRICT.
(A)
A historic district, known as the Boston-Edison historic district, was established by a resolution of
the Detroit City Council on April 2, 1974.
(B)
The boundaries of the Boston-Edison historic district were established by a resolution of the
Detroit City Council on April 2, 1974.
(C)
As provided for in the Detroit City Council resolution dated April 2, 1974, the design treatment
level of the Boston-Edison historic district is rehabilitation.
(D)
the elements of design shall be defined for the Boston-Edison historic district as follows:
(1)

Height. Virtually all of the houses in the district have two (2) full stories plus an attic or a finished
third floor within the roof, which are generally called "two-and-a-half" (2½) story houses.
Additions to existing buildings shall be related to the existing structure. New buildings shall meet
the following standards:
(i)

the eight (8) adjoining houses on the same block face, excluding any houses built since
1930, shall be used to determine an average height. If eight (8) houses are not available on
the same block face, then one (1) or more houses as close as possible to being directly
across the street from the proposed structure may be used. The height of the two (2)
adjoining houses shall be added into the total twice, with a divisor of ten (10) used to
determine the average. The main roof of any new building must have a height of at least
eighty percent (80%) of the resulting average. In no case shall a new building be taller than
the tallest roof height included in the calculation. In determining the height of existing
buildings and proposed buildings, the highest point of the main roof shall be used, even
where towers or other minor elements may be higher.

(ii)

the level of the eaves of the proposed new structure has as much or more significance for
compatibility as the roof height. Therefore, an average eave or cornice height shall be
determined by the same process as that described above. The proposed new structure shall
have a height at the eaves or cornice of not less than ninety percent (90%) of the average
determined from existing structures; and in no case shall the eaves or cornice of the
proposed structure be lower than the lowest eave or cornice height used in the computation,
nor higher than the highest eave or cornice.

(2)

Proportion of buildings' front facade. Proportion varies in the district, depending on the age, style,
and location in a specific subdivision. Most houses are wider than tall, especially those on large or
multiple lots east of the John C. Lodge freeway. With height being established by the standards
above, proportion will be established by prohibiting any proposed building or addition from
creating a front facade wider than the widest, or narrower than the narrowest, of those existing on
the same block face.

(3)

Proportion of openings within the facade. Windows openings are virtually always taller than wide;
however, several windows are sometimes grouped into a combination that is wider than tall.
Window openings are always subdivided. The most common window type is double-hung with
sashes that are generally further subdivided by muntins or leaded glass. Facades have
approximately fifteen percent (15%) to thirty-five percent (35%) of their area glazed. Sun porches
with a very high proportion of window openings subdivided by mullions and muntins are common.

(4)

Rhythm of solids to voids in front facades. In buildings derived from classical precedents, voids are
usually arranged in a symmetrical and evenly-spaced manner within the facades. In examples of
other styles, particularly those of English medieval inspiration, voids are arranged with more
freedom, but usually in a balanced composition.

(5)

Rhythm of spacing of buildings on streets. The spacing of the buildings is generally determined by
the setback from side lot lines. There is a variance in the widths of subdivision lots from one block

 to another. The lots generally range from forty (40) feet to seventy-five (75) feet in width. The
minimum spacing between houses is ten (10) feet and the maximum spacing between houses is
approximately three hundred and twenty-five (325) feet, where several lots are combined. The
typical spacing is ten (10) feet to fifteen (15) feet from side lot lines. In the case of very wide
properties, two (2) conditions exist: the house is located in the center of the site with extensive side
yard space, which only occurs with extremely large houses by district standards; or the house is
located at the side of the wide site, which creates an extensive side yard on one (1) side of the
house.
(6)

Rhythm of entrance and/or porch projections. In those examples derived from classical precedents,
entrances and porches, if any, tend to be centered on the front facade. Other examples display more
freedom with entrance and porch placement. Porches and permanently enclosed sun porches are
often placed at the side and sometimes at the rear of the building.

(7)

Relationship of materials. The majority of houses are faced with brick, while many are partially or
totally stucco. There are some stone buildings, sometimes combined with stucco; clapboard is rare,
and is extremely rare as the sole material. Roofing includes slate, tile and asphalt shingles. Wood
shingle roofs were once common and have generally been replaced with asphalt. Wood shake does
not exist and there is no known evidence that it was ever used in the district. Stone trim is common.
Wood is almost universally used for window frames and other functional trim and is used in many
examples for all trim.

(8)

Relationship of textures. The most common relationship of textures in the district is that of a lowrelief pattern of mortar joints in brick contrasted with the smooth surface of wood or stone trim.
There are a few houses with rough or rusticated stone surfaces. The use of stucco or concrete, with
or without half-timbering, as a contrast to brick surfaces, is not unusual. Tile, slate, or wood shingle
roofs have particular textural values where they exist. Asphalt shingles generally have little textural
interest, even in those types which purport to imitate some other variety.

(9)

Relationship of colors. Natural brick colors (such as red, yellow, brown, buff) predominate in wall
surfaces. Natural stone colors also exist. Where stucco or concrete exists, it usually remains in its
natural state, or is painted in a shade of cream. Roofs are in natural colors (tile and slate colors,
natural and stained wood colors), and asphalt shingles are predominantly within this same dark
color range. Paint colors often relate to style. The buildings derived from classical precedents,
particularly those of Neo-Georgian style, generally have woodwork painted white, cream, or in the
range of those colors including "putty"; doors and shutters are frequently dark green or black.
Colors known to have been in use on similar buildings of this style in the eighteenth or early
twentieth centuries may be considered for appropriateness. Buildings of medieval inspiration
(notably Neo-Tudor) generally have painted woodwork and window frames of a dark brown or
cream color. Half timbering is almost always stained dark brown. The original colors of any
building, as determined by professional analysis, are always acceptable for a house, and may
provide guidance for similar houses.

(10)

Relationship of architectural details. Architectural details generally relate to style. Neo-Georgian
buildings display classic details, mostly in wood, and sometimes in stone. Porches, shutters,
window frames, cornices, and dormer windows are commonly, although not always, treated.
Details on "Mediterranean" style or vernacular buildings including arched windows, door openings,
and porches, are often done in stone, brick, tile, and sometimes in stucco. Buildings of medieval
inspiration tend to have details in the form of carved wood or carved stone ornaments on window
frames, door frames, and eaves. In general, the various styles are rich in architectural details.

(11)

Relationship of roof shapes. A variety of roof shapes exist in the district, depending on building
style. Shallow hipped roofs with dormers, roofs with triangular gables, and steep hipped roofs
predominate. A few gambrel roofs exist. Complex arrangements of the gabled and/or the hipped

 types, with subsidiary or transverse roofs, are not unusual. Dormers are common. Flat roofs are
present only as subsidiary roofs on residential structures. Garage roofs generally reflect the style
and pitch of the roof on the main house.
(12)

Walls of continuity. The major wall of continuity is created by the buildings, with their uniform
setbacks within the blocks. New buildings should contribute to this wall of continuity. Minor walls
of continuity are created where rows of trees have survived in sufficient numbers or new trees are
planted in rows, and where hedges along front lot lines exist in numbers.

(13)

Relationship of significant landscape features and surface treatments. The typical treatment of
individual properties is a flat or graded front lawn area in grass turf, often subdivided by a straight
or curving walk leading to the front entrance. Materials for such walks are concrete, brick, stone, or
combinations of those materials. Some front yards have rectangular raised earthwork terraces upon
which the house stands. These unpaved terraces have sloping embankments or retaining walls
which are made of brick, stone, or both, at the change of grade. Foundation plantings, often of a
deciduous character, characteristic of the period 1900-1930, are present virtually without
exception. Hedges between properties and along front property lines are not uncommon. It is
characteristic for corner lots to have hedges or fencing at side lot lines along the sidewalk. There is
a wide range in the type of fencing. Fencing within the public view was generally designed to
compliment the style, design material, and date of the residence. Although the American elm was
once the dominant tree, it is virtually extinct in the district. Replacement trees should be
characteristic of the area and period. Plantings of new trees should be directed to "tree lawns" and
medians. If American elm is planted, it should be disease resistant. Straight side driveways leading
from the street to rear garages are the norm, although access to garages is also off the alley,
especially in areas of the district that were developed earlier. On corner lots, garages and driveways
often face the side streets. These driveways are paved in asphalt, concrete, or brick. Side lots are
not uncommon for the larger properties in the district, and a number of these form a part of the
original site plan for the residence. Such side lots are usually landscaped and are often fenced at or
near the setback line. The width of tree lawns varies from block to block. Street pavements are now
asphalt. Cut stone curbs still exist in areas of the district where they have not yet been replaced
with concrete, primarily east of the John C. Lodge freeway. Public sidewalks are concrete. Some
tree lawns/berms have been covered with concrete in parts of the district, which may represent
encroachment on city property. The resulting wide sidewalks are not appropriate in the district. The
ample one hundred and twenty-five (125) foot street right-of-ways of West Boston Boulevard and
Chicago Boulevard are ample, and each have two (2) narrow pavements divided by the large
graded grassy median strips which are planted with evergreens and deciduous trees. The other eastwest streets, Longfellow Street and Edison Boulevard, are sixty-six (66) feet wide. The Detroit
Lighting Commission's ornamental poles ("o.p.") with cast iron bases (pattern #10 and cast iron
panel pattern #16a) and wooden shafts are placed at regular intervals primarily on the medians on
Boston Boulevard and Chicago Boulevard, and on the tree lawns on other east-west streets.
Lighting on the north-south side streets consists of steel poles, some of which are fluted, with either
ornate pendants or simple cranes. There are historic upright poles along the periphery of Voight
Park. Concrete and brick entrance piers exist at Woodward Avenue and Longfellow Street. Alleys
run east-west down the center of the blocks, with the exception of the north-south alleys behind the
Woodward Avenue frontage.

(14)

Relationship of open space to structures. Open space in the district occurs in the form of vacant
land, a city park, side lots, and grassy median strips in the boulevards. There are no houses facing
Woodward Avenue. Ample open space is provided at Woodward Avenue and Boston Boulevard,
creating a park-like entrance into the district. The John C. Lodge freeway is depressed and forms
a visual and physical gap in the district. All houses have rear yards as well as front yards. Where an
original or early arrangement of house and grounds included, and still includes, landscaped lots
which form part of the landscaping plan for the residence, such landscaped lots are significant
landscape features.

 (15)

Scale of facades and facade elements. There is a variety in scale from block to block and style to
style, the largest and most substantial houses being primarily those on the first two (2) blocks west
of Woodward Avenue and on Boston Boulevard east of the John C. Lodge freeway. West of the
John C. Lodge freeway and on Longfellow Street and Edison Boulevard, the houses are generally
smaller in scale and are situated on smaller lots. The size and complexity of facade elements and
details either accentuate or subdue the scale of the facades. Facade elements have been determined
by what is appropriate for the style. Window sash are usually subdivided by muntins, which affect
the apparent scale of the windows within the facades.

(16)

Directional expression of front elevations. Although many of the larger buildings are wider than
tall, the expression is generally neutral.

(17)

Rhythm of building setbacks. Because of the existence of various subdivisions and related
subdivision and deed restrictions, setbacks vary from area to area within the district, although they
are generally consistent within each block or area. The varying designs of the houses, occasionally
with slight setbacks in the facades, cause the houses to relate to the front setback line in different
ways. This creates a slight variation in the setback line. Nevertheless, within each block or area, a
wall of continuity is created.
Relationship of lot coverage. Lot coverage ranges from approximately forty percent (40%) to ten
percent (10%) or less in the case of homes with large yards. Most homes are in the twenty-five
percent (25%) to thirty-five percent (35%) range of lot coverage.

(18)

(19)

Degree of complexity within the facade. The degree of complexity has been determined by what is
typical and appropriate for a given style. The buildings derived from classical precedents usually
have simple, rectangular facades with varying amounts of ornamentation. Other styles, such as
those of medieval inspiration, frequently have facades complicated by gables, bays, slight setbacks,
and an occasional tower. In general, the smaller houses in the district are less complex.

(20)

Orientation, vistas, overviews. Most of the houses in the district have front entrances which are
oriented toward the streets running east-west. The houses on Lasalle Boulevard, from Chicago
Boulevard to Edison Boulevard, are orientated toward Lasalle. Garages are frequently oriented
either toward an alley and/or the front drive or toward a side street in the case of corner lots.
Almost all garages are detached and are at the rear of the lot.

(21)

Symmetrical or asymmetric appearance. Neo-Georgian and other buildings derived from classical
precedents are generally symmetrical. Buildings in other styles, including the neo-Tudor, are
generally asymmetric, but balanced, compositions.

(22)

General environmental character. The Boston-Edison district, with its long straight streets, two (2)
boulevards, large-to-moderate sized stately single-family homes, Voight Park and Woodward
Avenue's open space, has an urban, substantial, low density residential character.

  

-- .zr .
..

 

 

 

 -


., - .-.-:






 

Due to the difference in surface color of the brick below the door, and
the paint lines, both of which extend to the right (former stairs) and
to the left beyond the basement window, physical evidence remains
to show the width/footprint of the original porch.

 &Ccmpos:tes 3' Deckng

Had-:- 

f.

Deon Flailings i"

Deck Rai =ng Systems

. I 
I I
- a

[nu 

 

Weatherables 

Delray 3 ft. 4 ft. Vinyl White Railing Kit
with Colonial Spindles

th a fi Fl eview Premium quality. commercial grade 'u'inyi
0 Low maintenance no painting or staiiwsng

0 True 4 ft. wide section with brackets included for il?stallation

$119?

Save up to $100 on your qualifying purchase.
Aopl'y for a Home Depot Consumer Card

Brendan Cagney

From: Marty Leger 
Sent: Thursday, October 17, 2019 1:31 PM

To: Historic District Commission (Staff)

Subject: 2475 Chicago - historical district

Hello

For the aforementioned house, I want to rebuild the backyard balcony that goes on 2nd ?oor.

Martin Leger
Central Dwellings corp
419-705-4544

Ed 6T (06 CONWIODS

thww? WP - twg?la
gm?iwmimb awards

ln cl
(Jud; wag; il- rwwueall 
:01??de 

 

.
ink", g'x q'

r-







?fat.

1.5 ?Cf ?an 


 

 

Scanned with CamScanner

Brendan Cagney

From: Marty Leger <centraIdwellings@gmail.com>
Sent: Thursday, October 17, 2019 1:38 PM

To: Historic District Commission (Staff)

Subject: 2475 Chicago Detroit

The description of the work is to rebuild a balcony
8 feet width

4 feet deep

Floor of ?oor balcony 2 1/2 feet height.

9 feet higher will be the 2nd balcony.

Railings in wood around both balconies

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Meadtig Leg: in sco - V1 
219201511542 rp if" 71 30"
Val/clui?xLi?s?fbciu/?aq
ii 2 
?1m, 



Womb?m iv :5
YS dude j?f1M ?(flaw $372k,

M05 (if floorfor?t; rue 911'? tummy miles
brim Watt Him My. team ?has mum

the who Need, New. 31 Wk @Klur?l? 0% ?1?in to 5m

?fth/i6 more mm. Ddcde} ollopaol?s-bi 7W5w
ilk/Cm mm.

t?rr/l?dmi' 

HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
PROJECT REVIEW REQUEST

CITY OF DETROIT
PLANNING DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
2 WOODWARD AVENUE, ROOM 808, DETROIT. MI 48226 DATE: 

 

PROPERTY INFORMATION
WWI): AKA:



 

HISTORIC DISTRICT: E??z?rt

APPLICANT IDENTIFICATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

/Property Tenant or Architect/
Owner/ Contractor Business Englneer/
Homeowner Occupant Consultant

NAME: MMNA LOW: 2AM) COMPANY NAME: CWMC Dill/(ill 6; 
ADDRESS: Bi/Slilm. 4w? CITY: I Whirl" STATE: ZIP:
2?09" EMAIL: 

PROJECT REVIEW REQUEST CHECKLIST

PleaS/a' attach the following documentation to your request:

 

 

 

 

..
Photo ra hs 'd t' 'Ideso eXIs Ing Ul mg or I .NOTE- I
I Based on the scope of work, additional I

Detailed photographs of location of proposed work I documentation may be required. I
(photographs to Show existing condition(s), design. color, material) See for 
Description of existing conditions IstpE-ipf?ff re?ulrenlentf._ .. .I

(including materials and design)_\

Description of project (if replacing any existing material(s), include an explanation as to why
replacement--rather than repair--of existing and/or construction of new is required)

 

 

 

 

Detailed scope of work (formatted as bulleted list)

 

 

Brochure/cut Sheets for proposed replacement material(s) and/or product(s), as applicable

Upon receipt of this documentation. staff will review and inform you of the next steps toward obtaining your building permit
from the Buildings, Safety Engineering and Environmental Department (BSEED) to perform the work.

SUBMIT COMPLETED REQUESTS TO ETRO ITM I .G 0V

Brendan Cagney

From: Marty Leger 
Sent: Thursday, October 17, 2019 1:31 PM

To: Historic District Commission (Staff)

Subject: 2475 Chicago historical district

Hello

For the aforementioned house, I want to rebuild the backyard balcony that goes on 2nd ?oor.

Martin Leger
Central Dwellings corp
419-705-4544

Ens?nee ComD?TmDs

w?smr hmmsim

ww M50 06% 71%?
1 can i 
?$393 demim? 



Hr mi) 0
abide a

 

Brendan Cagney

From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Marty Leger <centraldwellings@gmail.com>
Thursday, October 17, 2019 1:38 PM
Historic District Commission (Staff)

2475 Chicago Detroit

The description of the work is to rebuild a balcony
8 feet width

4 feet deep

Floor of 1st ?oor balcony 2 1/2 feet height.

9 feet higher will be the 2nd balcony.

Railings in wood around both balconies

Martin Leger 
Central Dwellings corp 6?1 Li? )1 (F1435 
419 705 4544 30 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(i [W?s?f bdrm??

 

 

 

Mk9 2 balm/fag.
Wm.
iwit WW7
n? braIii/Ir: - - F7 sit":- 
3 niece Step5

i- f? .ls
TMM $019k.

NHM $0er ??95 (ff HQ HOOVJUOIZR h?wm? 
was Wall ?alive Mac, ?ram mu, mm; Magnum

w?m \Uoci mum. Al Wk QR?iurQ? or to 5%
WM 07??14?6 bowie mum/7. MW minimal 3-4 7m5w

1* W04 mliLw.


