Board of Education
City of Chicago

 

Estela G. Beltran Of?ce of the Board Susan J. Narrajos
SECRETARY 1 North Dearbom Street, Suite 950, Chicago, Illinois 60602 ASSISTANT SECRETARY
(773) 553-1600 Fax (773) 5534601

December 9, 2019

Miguel del Valle President, and
Members of the Board of Education
Luisiana Mel?ndez
Sendhil Revuluri
Amy Rome
Lucino Sotelo
Elizabeth Todd-Breland
Dwayne Truss

Enclosed is a copy of the Agenda for the Board of Education Rescheduled Meeting to be held on
Wednesday, December 11, 2019. The meeting will be held at Curie High School, 4959 S. Archer Ave., Auditorium
[Note: Enter through Door The Board Meeting will begin at 5:00 pm. and will be live streamed at cpsboecrg.

Public Participation Guidelines are available on or by calling (773) 553-1600.

For the December 11, 2019 Rescheduled Board Meeting, advance registration to speak and observe will be
available beginning Monday, December 9th at 10:30 am. and will close on Tuesday, December 10?h at 5:00 pm, or
until all slots filled. Advance registration during this period is available by the following methods:

. Online: (recommended)
. Phone: (773) 553-1600
. in Person: 1 North Dearborn Street, Suite 950

To ensure equity of access to address the Board, an individual may not speak at two (2) consecutive Board
Meetings. in the event an individual registers to speak at a consecutive Board Meeting, the individual will not be
called to address the Board.

Although Advance Registration is recommended, you can also register to observe a meeting on the day of
a Board Meeting via:

. Same Day In Person Observer Registration: Curie High School, 4959 S. Archer Ave.
0 Registration Time: Opens at 4:45 pm. and will remain open for the duration of the Board
Meeting

Same Day, In?Person Observer Registrations are taken on a first come, first serve basis as seats become
available. . . 

The Public Participation segment of the meeting will begin immediately following the CEO Remarks and
proceed for no more than 60 registered speakers for the two hours.

The complete, final Agenda of Actions from the November 20, 2019 Board meeting is on our website:


Sincerely,



Estela G. Beltran
Secretary

EB
Enclosures

 

CHICAGO BOARD OFEDUCATION
BOARD MEETING

 

 

 

 

AGENDA
December 11, 2019

POSTING OF COLORS - Curie Metropolitan High School Marine Corps JROTC
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE

CALL TO ORDER
ROLL CALL 

HONORING EXCELLENCE
CI Curie Metropolitan High School Advanced Women's Ensemble

CEO REMARKS

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION

CEO REPORT

DISCUSSION OF PUBLIC AGENDA ITEMS
ON PUBLIC AGENDA ITEMS

NON-DELEGABLE BOARD REPORTS THAT REQUIRE MEMBER ACTION
RESOLUTIONS

19-1211-RS1 Resolution Authorize the City of Chicago in Trust for Use of Schools to Grant
Access and Utility Easements on School Properties Held by the City in Trust

19-1211-R32 Resolution Authorize Appointment of Members to the ESSA Title I Parent
Board of Governors for New Term of Office

19-1211-R83 Resolution Authorize Appointment of Members to Local School Councils to Fill
Vacancies

POLICIES

Amend Board Report 05-1116-PO1 E-Rate Management Policy

19-1211-P02 Amend Board Report 09~1 028-P01 Veterans Diploma Policy

19-1211-PO3 Amend Board Report External Research Study and Data Policy

Rescind Board Report 86-0122-RS3 Resolution Authorizing Change in the
Method of Recognizing Property Tax Revenues and Adopt a New Policy for

Method of Recognizing Revenues

POLICIES 

Rescind Board Report 08-0723-PO3 Behavioral Interventions, Physical
Restraints and Isolated Time Outs for Students with Disabilities and Adopt

interim Physical Restraints and Time Outs Policy

19-1211-P06 Rescind Board Report Combined Americans with Disabilities Act
and 504 Policy and Adopt a New Americans with Disabilities Act Policy

19-1211-PO7 Adopt a New Education of Students with Disabilities Policy

RULES

 

19-1211-RU1 Amend Board Rule 1-10 on an Interim Basis to Add to the Functions of the -
Finance and Audit Committee

19-1211-RU2 Amend Board Rule 4-10 on an interim Basis with Respect to Holiday Pay and
Make-Up Days

19-1211-RU3 Amend Board Rule 4~14(b) on an Interim Basis with Respect to Bereavement
Leaves

COMMUNICATION

19-1211-001 Communication Re: Location of Board Meeting of January 22, 2020 
CPS Loop Office, 42 W. Madison, Garden Level, Board Room, Chicago, lL 60602

REPORTS FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

19-1211-EX1 Transfer of Funds

19-1211-EX2 Amend Board Report 17?1206-gx12 Authorize Renewal of the Frazier
Preparatory Academy Charter School Agreement with Conditions

19-1211-EX3 Amend Board Report 18-0425-EX2 Amend Board Report 16-0427-EX4 Authorize
Renewal of the Chicago Virtual Charter School Agreement with Conditions

REPORTS FROM THE GENERAL COUNSEL

19-1211-AR1 Debarment of Amber Bedolla

19-17211-AR2 Debarment of Chicago Contemporary Dance Theatre Inc.
Debarment of ChristOpher Head

REPORTS FROM THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER

19-1211-PR1 Authorize a New Agreement with Thorsen Consulting, Inc. for Development and
Hosting of the WaitlistIOffer Module

REPORTS FROM THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER (CONTINUED)

19-1211-PR2

19-1211-PR3

19-1211-PR4

19-1211-PR5



19-1211-PR7

19-1211-PR8

Authorize a New Agreement with ECRA Group Incorporated for Student Growth
Measure Services

Authorize the Second and Final Renewal Agreements with Various Contractors
to Provide Various Trades Work Over $10,000 for the Operations and
Maintenance Program

Authorize the Pre-Qualification Status of and New Agreements with Various
Vendors to Provide Job Order Contracting (JOC) Services

Report on the Award of Construction Contracts and Changes to Construction
Contracts for the Board of Education's Capital Improvement Program

Authorize the First Renewal and Amendment of Agreement with RL Canning,
Inc. for Service Desk and Tech Support Services

Authorize a New Agreement with Guidepost Solutions LLC for Safe Schools
Audit Services

Amend Board Report 17-0726-PR6 Authorize the Pre-Qualification Status of and
New Agreements with Various Vendors to Provide Temporary Staffing Services

DELEGABLE REPORTS

REPORT FROM THE CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER

19-1211-PR9

Chief Procurement Officer Report for October 2019 on the Delegated Authority
Exercised under Board Rule 7-13

REPORT FROM THE GENERAL COUNSEL



Report on Board Report Rescissions

NON-DELEGABLE BOARD REPORT THAT REQUIRES MEMBER ACTION

MOTION

19-1211-M01 Motion to Hold a Closed Session

CLOSED SESSION

Litigation

Counsel Retention
Warning Resolutions
Terminations

Personnel

Collective Bargaining
Real Estate

Security

Closed Session Minutes
Individual Student Matters
Other Reports



RECONVENE

VOTE ON EXECUTIVE SESSION ITEMS

ADJOURN



December 11, 2019
RESOLUTION

AUTHORIZE THE CITY OF CHICAGO IN TRUST FOR USE OF SCHOOLS
TO GRANT ACCESS AND UTILITY EASEMENTS
ON SCHOOL PROPERTIES HELD BY THE CITY IN TRUST

WHEREAS, the Board of Education of the City of Chicago (the ?Board?) is a body corporate and
politic, organized and existing under and by virtue of the provisions of the School Code, 105 
5/34-1 et. seq. as amended; and

WHEREAS, the Board exercises general supervision and jurisdiction over the establishment and
maintenance of public schools and other educational facilities of the Board including playgrounds and
other recreational facilities; and 

WHEREAS, Section 5/34?20 of the School Code provides that title to the Board?s property shall
be held by the City of Chicago in Trust for Use of Schools (?City in Trust"); and

WHEREAS, public utility companies and the City of Chicago may from time to time request
access and utility easements on school properties for the purpose of modernizing, installing, replacing,
upgrading, extending and repairing their public utility service facilities; and

WHEREAS, the Board has authorized the General Counsel to execute and approve access
agreements on Board properties for this purpose;

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED BY THE CHICAGO BOARD OF EDUCATION:

1. The Board authorizes and directs the City of Chicago in Trust for Use of Schools, as title
holder for the Board, to execute access and easement grant agreements with public
utilities and the City of Chicago upon written request from the Board?s Chief Operating
Of?cer or General Counsel and approval as to legal form by the Board?s General
Counsel.

2.. The Board authorizes its General Counsel and its Chief Operating Officer to take all
necessary action required to grant access and easements to public utilities and the City
of Chicago that will improve and expand utility service to and on Board property.

3. This Resolution is effective immediately upon its adoption.

19-121 1-R32 December 11, 2019

RESOLUTION
AUTHORIZE APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO THE ESSA TITLE 1
PARENT BOARD OF GOVERNORS FOR NEW TERM OF OFFICE

WHEREAS, Section 1116 of Title of the Every Student Succeeds Act empowers and
directs the Board of Education of the City of Chicago (?Board") to seek parental input on the Board?s
ESSA programming and expenditures; and

WHEREAS, Section 1116 of Title of the Every Student Succeeds Act authorizes the
establishment of a district-wide body comprised of parents of students participating in ESSA programs to
provide advice on all matters related to parental involvement in programs conducted under Section 1116;
and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 1116 of Title I and Board Report 18-1024-ED1, on October 24,
2018 the Board authorized the establishment of an ESSA Title 1 Parent Board of Governors to act
in an advisory capacity to the Board on matters reiating to its ESSA programming, parental involvement
activities and funds expenditures; and

WHEREAS, on October 24, 2018, the Board adOpted by?laws of the PBG (Board Report 18? 
1024-ED1), which provided for the appointment of thirteen members, the thirteenth member shall be
appointed by the Of?ce of Family and Community Engagement in Education and

WHEREAS, the PBG by-laws provide that the Board shall fill vacancies on the PBG by appointing
parents of Chicago Public Schools ESSA Title I students, with consideration given to: racial and ethnic
diversity; geographical diversity; ESSA Title I parent status; and representation of schools with both larger
and smaller ESSA Title 1 programs; and

WHEREAS, after taking into consideration the factors set forth above, the Office of Family and
Community Engagement in Education has recommended the individuals named on the attached Exhibit A
for appointment to the 

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:

1. The Title parents named on the attached Exhibit A are hereby appointed to the ESSA
Title I Parent Board of Governors for either a term of office commencing December 11,
2019 and ending June 30, 2021 or a term commencing December 11, 2019 and ending
June 30, 2022. Thereafter members? terms will run July 1 through June 30 for two years.

2. This Resolution shall be effective immediately upon adoption.



EXHIBIT A

Title I Parents AQQointed to the Parent Board of Governors

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name Schoolls) Network Term
December 11, 2019?June 30, 2021

Chron Cross Dyett HS 9
Raquei Don Ward 6 December 11, 2019-June 30, 2022
Bridgett White Davis 11 December 11, 2019-June 30, 2021
Esmeralda Gutierrez Bright, Henry 13, 1 December 11, 2019-June 30, 2022
Sarah Hernandez Washington Elementary 13 December 11, 2019-June 30, 2022
Matthew Johnson Beasley, Simeon, Tilden 9, 17, 16 December 11, 2019~June 30, 2021
Sherri Miles Barnard 10 December 11, 2019-June 30, 2022
Echelle Mohn Lindblom 16 December 11, 2019-June 30, 2021
Mary Ottinct Beard 1 December 11, 2019-June 30, 2021

Kenwcod, Dyett HS, Curie 15, 9, 17 December 11, 2019-June 30, 2021
Coretta Pruitt HS
Andrea Tolzmann Pulaski 6 December 11, 2019~June 30, 2021
Judith Vazquez Clemente 15 December 11, 2019-June 30, 2022
Wenda Royal South Shore Fine Arts 17 December 11, 2019-June 30, 2021

 

 

19-1211-R83 December 11, 2019

RESOLUTION
AUTHORIZE APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS
TO LOCAL SCHOOL COUNCILS TO FILL VACANCIES

WHEREAS, the Illinois School Code, 105 authorizes the Board of Education of the
City of Chicago ('Board') to appoint the teacher, non-teacher staff and high school student members of
local school councils of regular attendance centers to fill mid-term vacancies after considering the
preferences of the schools? staff or students, as appropriate, for candidates for appointment as
ascertained through non-binding advisory polls;

WHEREAS, the Governance of Alternative and Small Schools Policy, B. R. 
("Governance Policy?), authorizes the Board to appoint ail members of the appointed local school councils
and boards of governors of alternative and small schools (including military academy high schools) to ?ll
mid-term vacancies after considering candidates for appointment selected by the following methods and
the Chief Executive Of?cer's recommendations of those or other candidates:

 

Membership Categog Method of Candidate Selection

Parent Recommendation by serving LSC or Board

Community Recommendation by serving LSC or Board

Advocate Recommendation by serving LSC or Board

Teacher Non-binding Advisory Staff Poll

Non-Teacher Staff Member Non-binding Advisory Staff Poll

ROTC Instructor Non-binding Advisory Staff Poll (military academy high
schools only)

Student Non?binding Advisory Student Poll or Student Serving

as Cadet Battalion Commander or Senior Cadet
(military academy high schools)

WHEREAS, the established methods of selection of candidates for Board appointment to fill mid-
term vacancies on local school councils, appointed local school councils and/or boards of governors were
employed at the schools identi?ed on the attached Exhibit A and the candidates selected thereby and any
other candidates recommended by the Chief Executive Officer have been submitted to the Board for
consideration for appointment in the exercise of its absolute discretion;

WHEREAS, the Illinois School Code and the Governance Policy authorize 'the Board to exercise
absolute discretion in the appointment process;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF
CHICAGO:

1. The individuals identi?ed on the attached Exhibit A are hereby appointed to serve in the speci?ed
categories on the local school councils, appointed local schools and/or boards of governors of the
identi?ed schools for the remainder of the current term of their respective offices.

2. This Resolution shall be effective immediately upon adoption.

19-1211-RS3

PARENT
Yamit Fuentes
Tyeisha Watkins

TEACHER

Ricky McFadden
Marcos Rico
Julienne Ricker
Derrick Svelnys
Melissa Flisk
Loretta Fields
Margaret Ballasch

NON TEACHER
Ricky McFadden
Reed Lubin

STUDENT
Ernest Willingham
Kaliyah Reese

ADVOCATE
Dyanne Abdiel

Exhibit A

NEW APPOINTED LSC MEMBERS

REPLACING
Vacancy
Vacancy

REPLACING
Vacancy

Ayah Kamel
Paul Lebvyk 
Yvette Vazquez

. June Andalcio

Maria Delgado
Annette Booczko

REPLACING
Vacancy
Ilsa Surbaugh-Naumes

REPLACING
Vacancy
Vacancy

REPLACING
Vacancy

SCHOOL
DeVry HS
DeVry HS


Blaine ES
Curie HS
DeVry HS
DeVry HS
LaSalle ES
Simpson HS
Waters ES


Blaine ES
LaSalle ES

SCHOOL
Crane HS
Marshall HS

SCHOOL
DeVry

 

1942114301 December 11, 2019

AMEND BOARD REPQRT 
E-RATE MANAGEMENT POLICY

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS:

That the Chicago Board of Education (?Board?) Beard adept?a?new amend Board Report 05-1116-PO1
mg E-Rate Management Policy.

The purpose of this December 2019 amendment is to reflect changes to the E?Rate Management
program and to correctly identify the name of the office that centrally manages the program.

PURPOSE:

The purpose of this Policy is to: require a district-wide application(s) for E-Rate' funding in? lieu of
various individual school applications; identify a central point of management and accountability for
E-Rate applications and compliance; identify protocols for the Chicago Public Schools? participation in
the Federal E?Rate program; optimize funding opportunities and maximize participation in the E-Rate
program to address the technology needs of Chicago Public Schools; and ensure that schools satisfy
the complex rules and compliance requirements associated with E-Rate funding.

HISTORY: E- Rate is a federal program that supports bringing technology to the classroom and is
currently administered by the Schools and Libraries Division of the Universal Administrative Company
Under E- Rate, schools may receive discounts for eligible telecommunications products
services, Internet access as well as and internal connections and managed internal broadband services
and basic maintenance for internal connections Overall
nationwide E- Rate annually provides egg 2?25 billion in technology discounts based on the percentage of
students eligible for the National School Lunch Program the school?s location according to the Second
Modernization Order approved bv Federal Communications Commission Chicago Public
Schools has participated in the E-Rate program since 1998 and has been one of the largest recipients of
E-Rate discounts. In previous years, individual schools, along with the District, each concurrently
submitted independent applications to receive E-Rate discounts on their eligible technology purchases.
Due to program changes, the District has elected to submit a district-wide E- Rate application on behalf of
all schools and operating units in the District which aggregates the technology needs of all schools and
units into a single application.

 

POLICY TEXT:
1. DEFINITIONS

A. E-Rate Discount or E-Rate Funding means the percentage of total costs that eligible
schools may receive from to subsidize the acquisition of eligible
telecommunication services, Internet access and internal connections and basic
maintenance for internal connections as determined by the in any Funding
Commitment Decision Letter (FCDL).

B. Non-Discounted Portion means the portion of the total cost for the acquisition of
eligible telecommunication services, Internet access and internal connections, as well as
managed internal broadband services and basic maintenance for internal connections not
covered by an E- rate funding subsidy as determined by the in any Funding
Commitment Decision Letter (FCDL).

2. PROVISIONS

A. Central Point of Management. Information
Technology Services shall be the District?s central point of management for all



E-Rate related applications and processes for products and services that are designated
as E-Rate eligible by In addition, 918 shall be responsible for the
establishment and maintenance of an equitable E-Rate request process. The
centralization of the E-Rate program management by 9418 ES shall not imply that each
school?s technology initiatives or services being sought shall receive funding or be
deemed eligible for an E-Rate discount by the 

B. Filing of E-Rate Applications. Applications for E-Rate bene?ts shall be filed on a
district-wide basis. No school or unit shall submit an independent application for E-Rate
bene?ts directly to Upon request, schools shall timely submit to 9413 all
necessary data and documentation required to properly complete the District?s E-Rate
application(s).

C. Documentation. Schools shall maintain up-to-date school improvement plans, which
shall include school technology plans, and other necessary documentation, speci?ed by
918 in order for schools to benefit from E-Rate subsidies.

D. Compliance. GZIZS will provide schools with regular information, instructions and
guidelines regarding the various compliance requirements associated with the
implementation of an E?Rate project. Schools, with the assistance of 913 shall
ensure that that its E?Rate funded products and services comply with E-Rate
requirements, rules, regulations and procedures as well as applicable Board policies and
rules. In particular, under the federal Children Internet Protection Act no school
may receive E-Rate discounts unless it certi?es that it is enforcing a policy of Internet
safety that includes the use of ?ltering or blocking technology. Schools must protect its
students from accessing any obscene, child pornography or other materials harmful to
minors on the Internet. 9418 shall monitor school compliance with this requirement
and shall certify for the District whom is the recipient of E-Rate funding that all schools
within the District utilize filtering or blocking technology on any computers used by minors
in compliance with CIPA and the Board?s Policy on the Student Acceptable Use of the
CPS Network, as amended from time to time.

E. Financial. are ES shall periodically evaluate each school?s technology initiatives and
services in order to optimize funding opportunities and maximize participation in the
E?Rate program. The costs associated with the central administration of the E-Rate
Program are assumed by 918 E. Individual schools may be responsible for the non-
discounted portion of the costs of E-Rate eligible services and/or products or the
individual schools? share associated with new purchases through the E-Rate program as
determined by 918 E. All requests for E-Rate funding are subject to approval by


F. Guidelines. 9418 will issue guidelines to schools that outline the protocols and
responsibilities for projects and initiatives subsidized under the E-Rate program.

LEGAL REFERENCES: Factors which in?uence this policy include, but are not limited to, various federal
statutes governing the E-R'ate program, FCC Program Rules, US. Code of Federal Regulations,
policy and procedural changes, Board rules, policies and directives, and funding capacities
and authorities. .

19-1211-P01

Approved for Consideration:

    

Phi lip DiBa olo 7
Chief information Of?cer

Approved for Consideration:


Tanya D. ade
Chief Education Of?cer

   
 

Approved:



Joseph

General Couns 

   



December 11 2019

AMEND REPORT 
VETERANS DIPLOMA POLICY

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS:

That the Chicago Board of Education (?Board?) amend Board Report the Veterans Diploma
Policy.

The gurgose of this December 2019 amendment is to remove the Chief Education Of?cer?s coordination
of veteran graduation ceremonies.

PURPOSE: The Board wishes to honor veterans of foreign conflicts for their considerable contributions
and sacri?ces and, in particular, to recognize those veterans who sacrificed their schooling to serve their
country. Public Acts 92-446 and 96-0088 authorize school boards to award high school diplomas to
honorably discharged military veterans who served in the armed forces of the United States during World
War II, the Korean Conflict or the Vietnam Conflict. This policy establishes the CPS Operation
Recognition program and the requirements and procedures for veterans of foreign conflicts to receive
honorary high school diplomas from the Chicago Public Schools. In October 2009 That the Board
amend? the Veterans Diploma Policy Board Report 01-1128-P01 and to add_e_d Vietnam veterans to the
list of veterans eligible to receive honorary high school diplomas from the Chicago Public Schools.

 

POLICY TEXT:

Reguirements:

Section 22-27 of the Illinois School Code, requires that a veteran making a request for a diploma under
this policy ful?ll the following requirements:

0 Left high school before graduating in order to serve in the armed forces of the United States;
. Resided in the City of Chicago at the time that he or she left high school;
. Served in the armed forces of the United States during World War II, the Korean Conflict or the

Vietnam Conflict;
Was honorably discharged; and
. Has not received a high school diploma.

Requests for Diplomas:

The veterans diploma application form is available on the CPS website (Click Here). Veterans interested
in obtaining a high school diploma should submit a completed application form to the Chief Education
Of?cer or designee identi?ed on the application form along with documentation of honorable discharge.
Diplomas may also be posthumously applied for by next of kin.

Ceremonies:

Principals may extend an invitation to veterans to participate in upcoming graduation exercises at his or
her high school.
If a veteran does not wish to participate in a public ceremony, the diploma will
be provided by mail.

 

LEGAL REFERENCES: 105 ILCS 5/22-27


Approved for Consideration: Approved:

Bi?? Howie"
Chief Portfolio Officer

    
 

 

 

Approved for Consideration:

 

aTanya D. cDade
Chief ?Education Officer

 

19-1211-P03

December 11, 2019

AMEND BOARD REPORT 10-0728-PO1
EXTERNAL RESEARCH STUDY AND DATA POLICY

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS:

That the Chicago Board of Education (?Board?) amend Board Report 10- 0728- P01 the EXternal Research
Study and Data Policy.

 

The purpose of the December 2019 amendments are to address external research study and data needs,
update the of?ce @ponsible for handling requests and more accurately reflect the district mission and
vision for research.

PURPOSE: The Board recognizes that the District?s educational programs and services can benefit from
academic study and study in the field of education. It is in the Board?s best interest to establish a policy in
support of research endeavors when the ?ndings and results of these studies will be shared with the
Chicago Public Schools to advance public education. This policy establishes the requirements for
requesting authorization to conduct research in the Chicago Public Schools and/or to receive CPS data for
research purposes and also establishes protocols to comply with federal and state laws regarding privacy
of student records and the protection of pupils.

POLICY TEXT:

l. Applicability. This policy applies to individuals and entities who would like to conduct research
activities in the Chicago Public Schools or who would like to receive and use Chicago Public Schools
student data and/or staff data for research or evaluation purposes. This policy does not apply to requests
made under the Freedom of Information Act which are addressed in the Board?s Policy.

It. Definitions. For purposes of this policy, the following definitions apply:

Board Contracted Research(er): Research conducted by individuals, organizations, or agencies not
af?liated with the Board in accordance with their contract with the Board.

External Research(er): (1) independent research conducted by individuals, organizations, or agencies not
af?liated with the Board; (2) research conducted by Board employees for personal purposes outside of their
work duties during non-work hours, research for the completion of a master's thesis or doctoral
dissertation or for any other personal purposes); or (3) educational product research conducted by a

company or entity to study an educational product's effectiveness for potential sale to the Chicago Public
Schools.

Researcher: collectively refers to both Board Contracted Researchers and External Researchers.

Parent: natural, adoptive, foster or step-parent with guardianship rights, a legal guardian or a temporary
custodian with whom the student resides and who has assumed legal responsibility for the student.
Research: various evaluation, measurement and inquiry activities that include, but are not limited to any of
the following or any combination thereof: (1) the systematic investigation, including research development,
testing and/or evaluation, designed to develop or contribute to general knowledge; (2) collecting and
analyzing of information aimed at discovering new facts and their correct interpretation to draw conclusions;
and (3) quantitative and qualitative study activities such as observations, interviews, case studies,
ethnographic analysis, analysis of written materials, secondary analysis of data, achievement testing,
surveys, experimental designs to examine causal relationships, product testing and analysis of cost and
management records.

Student data: includes (1) personally-identi?able student level data, (2) de-identi?ed student level data, and
(3) aggregate level student data.



Staff data: includes (1) personally-identi?able staff level data, (2) de-identified staff level data, and (3) -
aggregate level staff data.

Ill. General Provisions

A. _A_?uthorization: The Ghief?Peefermanee?Qf?eer Director of School Quality Measurement a_n__d

Research or his/her designee shall approve or deny Researcher requests to conduct research
in the Chicago Public Schools or receive CPS data as described in this Policy. Ihe?Ghief?Perfermanee
Dimes?(19m) may establish reasonable fees to charge Researchers for the review and evaluation
of proposals and the compilation of data requested hereunder.

B. No Riqht to Access: There is no right to access Chicago Public Schools students, staff or data
related thereto for research purposes. Access may be granted when determined to be in the best interests
of the Board. If access is granted, Researcher may only access schools, students, staff and data relevant
to the research as approved by the GP SQMR.

C. Guidelines: GP SQMR shall establish guidelines, standards and procedures for evaluating requests
to conduct research in the Chicago Public Schools or to receive data for research purposes and generally
for implementing the requirements of this Policy. Researchers shall comply with all requirements speci?ed
by GP SQMR in their guidelines, standards and procedures.

D. Internal Research: Board employees who plan to conduct research as pad of a work assignment

or as part of their general job duties must obtain the prior approval of their supervisor prior to

commencement of research activities.

iV. Proposals

A. Board Contracted Research Proposals:

i. Except as to research activities described in section lV.A.ii. below, Board Contracted Researchers who
seek to conduct research activities in the Chicago Public Schools may not begin without ?rst submitting
the following materials to 942 SQMR for approval:

1. A draft copy of their proposed Board contract detailing the research activities, which includes:

1 How the study will contribute to the profession of education and be of direct benefit to the
Board



a: Description of the study?s design including but not limited to sample selection, instruments
to be used, proposed research subjects and statistical analysis;

I9

b: Whether the study has obtained institutional review board approval, if needed; and

IP-

97 Projected time and resource requirements for the Board, its employees and CPS students
to participate in the study.

2. Description of any student data that Researcher would like to collect and Board?held student
data that the Researcher would like to receive for use in the research study;

3. Description of any staff data that Researcher would like to collect and Board-held staff data
that the Researcher would like to receive for use in the research study;

4. Description and sample of Researcher's notice and consent protocols for obtaining written
consents from parents and all participants and how they are consistent with Section VI herein;

19-1211-P03

5. How the Researcher plans to protect and maintain the privacy of students and participants in
a study consistent with Section VI herein; and

6. Such additional information as may be requested by?GP SQMR.

Board Contracted Researchers who wish to conduct secondary analysis research only using existing
Board-held data and that does not involve data collection in the Chicago Public Schools, must obtain
prior 9P SQMR approval and must submit the information and materials identi?ed below to GP SQMR
for consideration.

How the study will contribute to the profession of education and be of direct bene?t to the Board;

Description of the research project;

Description of the Board-held student and/or staff data that the Researcher would iike to receive
for use in the research project;

A, 37 Description of how the Researcher plans to protect and maintain the privacy of students and
staff consistent with Section VI herein; and

Any additional information as may be requested by GP SQMR.

External Research Proposals:

Except as to research activities described in Section lV.B.ii. below, External Researchers who seek to
conduct research activities in the Chicago Public Schools may not begin without first submitting a
proposal that contains the following to GP for approval:

. How the study will contribute to the profession of education and be of direct bene?t to the Board;

2. Description of the study?s design including but not limited to sample selection, instruments to be
used, proposed research subjects and statistical analysis;

3. Whether the study has obtained institutional review board approval, if needed;

4. Projected time and resource requirements for the Board, its employees and CPS students to
participate in the study;

5. Whether the Researcher has the support of the Of?cer or Chief Officer responsible for the proposed
subject area of the research study;

6. Description and sample of Researcher?s notice and consent protocols for obtaining written consents
from parents and all participants and how they are consistent with Section VI herein;

7. How the Researcher plans to protect and maintain the privacy of students and participants in a
study consistent with Section VI herein;

8. Description of any student data that Researcher would like to collect and Board?held student data
that the Researcher would like to receive for use in the research study; 

Description of any staff data that Researcher would like to collect and Board-held staff data that

the Researcher would like to receive for use in the research study; and
10. Such additional information as may be requested by GP SQMR.
External Researchers who wish to conduct secondary analysis research only using existing Board?held
data and that does not involve data collection in the Chicago Public Schools, must obtain prior 9P
SQMR approval and must submit the information and materials identi?ed below to GP SQMR for
consideration.

How the studv will contribute to the profession of education and be of direct bene?tto the Board;

19-1211-P03

Description of the research project; 

2. Description of the Board- held student and/or staff data that the Researcher would like to receive
for use in the research project;

i 3? Description of how the Researcher plans to protect and maintain the privacy of students and
staff consistent with Section VI herein;

i Proof of consent for requests for .personaliy?identi?able student level data or personally-
identi?able staff level; and

5: Such additional information as may be requested by GP SQMR.

V. Approval

A. Notice of Approval or Acknowledgement. If a research proposal Is approved 0P will Issue
a research approval letter to the Researcher. 942 approval of a research proposal is limited to the
study scope and methods outlined in the proposal or Board contract. Researcher must provide a copy of
the research approval letter (or acknowledgement letter) to principals whose schools will be affected by the
research project to notify them of QR project approval and, if applicable, the Board contract
authorizing the research.

B. Limited Approval. 9P approval/acknowiedgement of an external research study is
conditional and subject to further approval by the school principal(s) and research subject(s) that form the
basis for the proposed study. A principal may place restrictions on an External Researcher?s access to
students and staff to minimize disruption to school activities.

C. Modi?cations. If a Researcher wishes to modify the research scope, methods or materially change
the research activities, the Researcher must obtain prior written approval of the modi?cation from 9P
SQMR. For Board Contracted Researchers, this obligation shall exist in addition to any other requirements
regarding project modifications that may be specified in their contract or memorandum of understanding.

D. Duration. OP approval of an external research project will only be valid for a period of one
year. if research activities extend beyond one year, the External Researcher must request approval for an
extension from 9P SQMR. GP approval of a Board Contracted Research project will be valid for
the duration of the contract.

VI. Requirements

A. Consent Forms: Prior to conducting research activities or collecting information from students or
staff, the Researcher must obtain the prior written informed consent of participants or of a parent on behalf
of a student. For students who are 18 or over, the Researcher must receive written informed consent from
the student. Students under 18 years old cannot participate in research without the informed consent of a
parent. Prior to obtaining personally?identi?able student level data, the Researcher must obtain written
consent from the parent on behalf of a student or from the student who is 18 or over. All consent form must
comply with state and federal laws and regulations regarding confidentiality of student records and the
protection of study participants.

B. Opportunitv to Review Survey Assessment: Researcher must provide parents with notice of and
the' opportunity to review the survey/assessment instrument prior to being administered or distributed. A
'Researcher?s consent documents shall inform parents of their right to review surveys or materials created
by an External Researcher prior to the time it is administered or distributed. Researcher shall be responsible
for assuring that a parent?s request to review surveys or materials is granted in a reasonable manner and
in a reasonable period of time.

C. Research Subjects: Researchers must use independent research subjects in their studies.
Researchers must not have a position of authority over proposed research subjects or have a con?ict of
interest with proposed research subjects.

19-1211-P03

D. Data Reguests: Researchers may not request data directly from schools or departments. All data
requests must be submitted to GP SQMR for handling. Researchers may not receive data hereunder unless
the Researcher provides GP SQMR with written evidence of compliance with the requirements of this policy.
In particular, Researchers may not receive personally-identifiable student level data unless the Researcher
also provides with written evidence that the parent or student, as appropriate, has consented to
the release of student records.

 

 

 

E. Data Security Agreement: To receive access to Board-held student level data or staff level data,
Researcher must sign a Data Security Agreement or other agreement approved by the General Counsel
that identi?es requirements for the storage, use, maintenance, protection, dissemination and destruction of
data provided hereunder. The Data Security Agreement must be signed by the Researcher for each
research proposal approved by GP SQMR. 7 

F. Additional Requirements: 9? SQMR may place additional conditions on an External Researcher
as deemed necessary including but not limited to requirements related to insurance and criminal
background checks. 9P approval of an external research project may be withdrawn for any reasdn
at any time.

G. Completion of Study or Research: When the research study is completed, the Researcher must
timely provide a copy of the ?nal research results to GP SQMR. The Board reserves the right to use the
information in the research report and research ?ndings for educational programming or services, planning,
solicitation of grants, staff development, and any other purposes to improve instruction or services to
students of the Chicago Public Schools.

Exception

Pursuant to Board Resolution 15-0225-RS1, the Chief Executive Of?cer is authorized to approve narrowly
tailored, limited exceptions to the External Research Study and Data Policy that comply with state and
federal laws when s/he deems the exception essential to further the District?s goals and priorities.

LEGAL REFERENCES: Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974, 20 U.S.C. ?12329; Protection
of Pupil Rights Act, 20 U.S.C. ?1232'h; Illinois School Student Records Act, 105 1011 et seq.

194211-4303

Approved for Consideration: Approved:

?ell?/ Ja ce ack on

 
 

     

Chief Portfolio Officer ref Ex cutiv Officer

if
Approved for Consideration: Approved as to Legal Form: 

A
if.? . 

anya D. Mc de 5?
Chief Education Officer 3

19-1211-PO4

December 11, 2019

RESCIND BOARD REPORT 86-0122-RS3
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING CHANGE IN THE METHOD OF RECOGNIZING
PROPERTY TAX REVENUES AND
ADOPT A NEW POLICY FOR METHOD OF RECOGNIZING REVENUES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS:

That the Chicago Board of Education (?Board') rescind Board Report 86-0122-R83 Resolution Authorizing
Change in the Method of Recognizing Property Tax Revenues and Adopt a New Policy for Method of
Recognizing Revenues. - 

PURPOSE: The rationale for rescinding and adopting the new policy is to clarify language adopted in the
1986 Resolution regarding the recognition period of revenues for accounting purposes. This policy
preserves the ability of the Chief Financial Of?cer to recognize revenues in accordance with generally
accepted accoUnting principles and in a manner consistent with the regulatory, legal, and economic
frameworks in which revenues are estimated for the budget process and financial plan. Finally, the policy
ensures the Chief Financial Officer maintains a revenue recognition policy that is consistent with
professional accounting standards and serves the ?nancial interest of the Board.

POLICY TEXT:

1. The Chief Financial Of?cer must maintain for external financial reporting purposes a revenue
recognition policy that is in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and is
consistent with the regulatory, legal, and economic framework in which revenues are estimated for
the budget process and ?nancial plan.

2. This Policy shall be effective immediately upon its adoption.

Approved for Consideration: Approved:
waiter Stock Jan" K. acks 
Treasurer Deputy Chief Financial Officer Ch of Exe tive fficer

    

 

   


I,
. . 
Approved for Consideration: Approved at?? Ire/H rm: 'ng'I/

- a,
Wnya D. . a
Chief Education Officer . General 6611 se



December 11, 2019

RESCIND BOARD REPORT 08-0723-PO3
BEHAVIORAL INTERVENTIONS, PHYSICAL RESTRAINTS AND ISOLATED TIME OUTS FOR
STUDENTS WITH DISABILITIES
AND
ADOPT INTERIM PHYSICAL RESTRAINTS AND TIME OUTS POLICY

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS:

That the Board rescind Board Report and adopt interim policy as set forth below and will
determine any permanent change after the public comment period.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this new policy is to comply with emergency action taken by the Illinois State
Board of Education to ban the use of seclusion and certain physical restraints in Illinois schools
and to improve data collection on all instances of time out and physical restraint. ISBE ?led emergency
rules effective November 20, 2019 (23 Adm. C. 1.285) and as amended on December 4, 2019. This
policy sets forth requirements, restrictions and procedures related to the use of physical restraints and time-
outs for all Chicago Public Schools students in accordance with emergency rules.

POLICY TEXT:

I. General

A. Time out and physical restraint as de?ned in Emergency Rule 23 Adm. C. 1.285 shall
be used only for therapeutic purposes, or as a means of maintaining a safe environment
for learning, to the extent necessary to preserve the safety of students and others.

B. Neither time-out nor physical restraint shall be used as a form of punishment.

C. When a student experiences three instances of nontherapeutic time out or physical
restraint, the school personnel who initiated, monitored, and supervised the incidents shall
initiate a review of the effectiveness of the procedures used and prepare an individual
behavior plan for the student that provides either for continued use of these interventions
or for the use of other, speci?ed interventions. The plan shall be placed into the student's
temporary student record. The review shall also consider the student's potential need for
an alternative program or for special education eligibility, or, for a student already eligible
for special education, change in program.

D. Any adult who is supervising a student in time out or applying physical restraint shall be
trained in de-escalation, restorative practices, and behavior management practices.

II. Physical Restraint
A. Physical Restraint means holding a student or otherwise restricting the student?s
movements. Physical restraint as permitted pursuant to Emergency Rule 23 Adm. C.
1.285 includes only the use of speci?c, planned techniques the "basket hold" and
"team control"). A physical restraint shall not impair a student?s ability to breathe or speak
normally. Prone or supine physical restraint shall not be permitted, except if all the following
criteria is met:

1) Before using a prone or supine physical restraint, the District or other entity
serving the student shall review and determine if there are no known
medical or limitations that contradict the use of a prone or
supine restraint.

2) The District or other entity serving the student deems the situation an
emergency, de?ned as a situation in which immediate intervention is
needed to protect a student or other individual from imminent danger of

19-1211-P05

3)

4)

5)

5)

7)

causing serious physical harm to himself, herself, or others and less
restrictive and intrusive interventions have been tried and proven
ineffective in stopping the imminent danger.

Prone or supine physical restraint is used in a manner that does not restrict
or impair a student's ability to breathe or communicate normally, obstruct
a student's airway, or interfere with a student's primary mode of
communication.

Prone or supine physical restraints are used only by personnel with
4required credentials who have completed required training under this
Policy.

Prone and supine restraints are used only if those interventions are the
least restrictive and intrusive interventions to address the emergency and
stop the imminent danger of serious physical harm to the student or others.

During each incident, one school staff person trained in identifying the

signs of distress must be assigned to observe the student during the entire
incident. That staff person may not be involved in the physical holding of
the student. The number of staff involved in physically restraining the
student may not exceed the number necessary to safely hold the student.
The prone or supine physical restraint ends immediately when the threat
of imminent serious physical harm ends, but in no event shall prone or
supine physical restraint last longer than 30 minutes. If, after 30 minutes,
the emergency has not resolVed or if an additional emergency arises the
same school day that meets the standards under Section ll. A. 2. a school
administrator, in consultation with a social worker, nurse, or
behavior specialist may authorize the continuation of the restraint or an
additional prone or supine restraint. No restraint may be continued nor
may additional restraints be applied unless it is authorized by a school
administrator.

if the student is restrained in a prone or supine physical restraint in at least
two (2) separate instances within a 30-school day period, the school
personnel who initiated, monitored, and supervised the incidents shall
initiate a review of the effectiveness of the procedures used. If the
personnel involved in the restraints do not include a social
worker, nurse, or behavior specialist, at least one of those staff members
must be included in the review. The review must include, but is not limited
to:

a) conducting or reviewing a functional behavioral analysis,
reviewing data, considering developing additional or revised
positive behavioral interventions and supports, considering
actions to reduce the use of restrictive procedures, or, if
applicable, modifying the individualized educational program or
the behavior intervention plan, as appropriate; and

b) reviewing any known medical or limitations that
contraindicate the use of a restrictive procedure, considering
whether to prohibit that restrictive procedure, and, if applicable,
documenting any prohibition in the individualized education
program or behavior intervention plan

B. For students with disabilities, the use of a Physical Restraint must be authorized by, and

included in, a student?s IEP where deemed appropriate by the student?s IEP team. A
Physical Restraint shall be used in compliance with a student?s IEP. Physical Restraints
shall not be used as a means of punishment.

19-1211-P05

C. The use of Physical Restraints is prohibited except when authorized by the (ii) used
by trained school staff, a student poses a physical risk to himself, herself, staff or others,
and/or (iv) use of the restraint is not known to be medically contraindicated. Only trained -
security personnel or other staff who have been appropriately trained in the safe application
of Physical Restraints may employ a Physical Restraint with a student.

D. Effective November 20, 2019, all school staff are required to document any use of physical
restraint using the form titled ?Physical Restraint and Time-Out Form" attached and
available on the ISBE website at 
The completed form must be:

1) sent to the student?s parents or guardians within 24 hours of the use of
physical restraint;

2) uploaded into the student?s Aspen records (and if a student with
disabilities, uploaded into 

3) emailed to CPS ODLSS Department at restrainttimeout@cpsedu; and

4) emailed to ISBE at restrainttimeout@isbe.net within 48 hours of the use
of physical restraint.

E. Nothing herein prevents school personnel from employing a momentary physical
intervention in accordance with the Board's Policy on Momentary Physical Interventions
with Students. .

Time-Out

A. ?Time-out" means a behavior management technique that involves the monitored
separation of a student from classmates with a trained adult for part of the school day,
usually for a brief time, in a non-locked setting.

B. Effective November 20, 2019, all school staff are required to document any use of time-out
using the form titled "Physical Restraint and Time Out Form? attached and available on the
website at 
The completed form must be:

1) sent to the student?s parents or guardians within 24 hours of the use of
time out;

2) uploaded into the student?s Aspen records (and if a student with
disabilities, uploaded into 

3) emailed to CPS ODLSS Department at restrainttimeout@cps.edu; and

4) emailed to ISBE at restrainttimeout@isbe.net within 48 hours of the use
of time out. .

C. A trained adult who is responsible for supervising the student must remain with the student
at all times during the time out. A student shall not be kept in time out for longer than is
therapeutically necessary. No less than once every 15 minutes, the trained adult must
assess whether the student has ceased presenting the speci?c behavior for which the time
out was imposed.

D. Use of isolated time-out is prohibited.

Compliance

School staff shall employ physical restraints and time-outs in accordance with the requirements
of this policy and the procedures and guidelines issued by the Chief Executive Of?cer or
designee. These guidelines will include the process the district will use to evaluate any incident
that results in an injury to the affected student and an annual review of the use of time-out or
physical restraint by CPS school staff.

Employees that violate this Policy, or the procedures and' guidelines issued by the Chief

Executive Of?cer or designee, are subject to discipline in accordance with the Board's

Employee and Due Process Policy.

19-1211-P05

Legal References: 105 105 ILCS 105 ILCS 105 ILCS 10?20.33;
Emergency Rule 23 Illinois Administrative Code 1.280, 1.285

Approved for Consideration:

Approved:

 

 



Illinois

State Board of Education i?f?gg 
100 North First Street

Spring?eld, 62777-0001

Instructions: Per 23 IN: a written record of each event involving a time out or physical restraint must be maintained in the
student?s temporary record. Public school districts, private special education schools, special education cooperatives, charter schools,
regional safe school programs, and any other educational program serving lliinois public school students must complete this form in
its entirety. Written parent noti?cation must occur within 24 hours of the incident This completed form must be sent to within 48

hours tor restrainttimeout@isbe. net.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

STUDENT NAME DATE OF BIRTH GRADE
SCHOOL DISTRICT
RACE GENDER
Does the student have an Yes No if yes, what is the disability category
Does the student have a 504 Plan? Yes No 
Physicai Restraint Out Date of Restraint:
Time Restraint Started: . Time Restraint Ended: Totai Time:

 

Location of Restraint:

 

Date of TIme Out: TIme Started: TIme Ended: Total Time:
Location of 'I'Ime Out: .
Check Reason for Restraint or TIme Out:

imminent Danger to Self
Dimminent Danger to Others EIStudent DStafl)



1. Events leading up to the incident:

2. interventions used prior to implementation of time out or physical restraint directives used, removed the trigger, use of proximity
control, etc.)

3. Describe the incident or student behavior that resulted in physical restraint (this should be the behavior that posed an imminent
. threat to self or others):

ISBE 11?01 (11MB)



4. Describe the physical restraint used (check all that apply for incident)
El 1-person child hold in seated position
?l-person child hold in standing position
team hold in seated position
team hold in standing position
other

 

5. Attach behavior log of student behavior during time out and restraint and any other interaction between the student and staff.

 

6. Were there any injuries to student or staff or others? [Was No
Describe:
7. Date and time evaluated by nurse: Nurse Signature:

 

Nurse Comments:

8. Was there propertydamage: [Wes [No

If yes, describe:

 

9. Evaluation by Certified or Trained Staff Member

if an episode of time out exceeds 30 minutes or a physical restraint exceeds 15 minutes or if repeated episodes occur during any three
hour time period, a certi?ed staff person knowledgeable about the use of time out or trained in the use of physical restraint must evaluate
the situation.

Certi?ed or Trained Staff Member Evaluating the situation:

 

Time of Evaluation:

 

Did the student require: food/water Yes No
medication El Yes No
use of restroom Yes No

adjustment in position Yes No (specify: 

 

Need for alternate strategies
[jassessment by mental health crisis team
assistance from police
Utransportation by ambulance
El other

 

Was the time out or restraint able to be safely continued? UYes 

Evaluator Notes:

10. Signatures of schooi personnel who participated in the implementation, monitoring, and supervision of time out or restraint.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name Titie
Name Title
Name Title
Name Title
Name . Title

 

1?1. Parent Noti?cation: EIPhone call ElEmaii [:lOther DRequired Written Parent Notification

Date: Time:

 

 

11-01 (11/19)

19-1211-P05

12. Was a postvention meeting held with the student to process the events leading up to the incident, to develop alternative solutions,
and to plan for re-entry into his/her routineElYes 

By Whom:

13. Date and time of the Team Meeting scheduled within 48 hours to discuss recommended changes in approach or follow-up needed:

Date of Team Meeting: Time of Team Meeting:

Attendees: .

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

14. Future actions to be taken:

15. if 3rd Incident of Restraint or Time Out, team decided to:

Refer for Problem-Solving Team Meeting (if not eligible for special education) to determine the extent to which additional or
different interventions or supports or service may be needed

Refer for a Domain Meeting (if not eligible for special education or Section 504 but the team suspects behaviors may be
related to a disability)

Schedule an or 504 Review Meeting (if already eligible) to determine if additional interventions or supports are needed, if
current intewentions are being properly implemented, and to remedy any denial of FAPE that resulted from the school?s use of
restraint or time out.

I

Other:

 

Date data was submitted into state reporting system: By Whom:

 

Copies of Physical Restraint Form, Behavior Log, and Parent Letter to he ?led in School Office Temporary File and submitted to
Designated School Administrator.

 

11-01 (11/19)

 19-1211-P06

December 1 1, 2019

RESCIND BOARD REPORT 12-0125-PO1
COMBINED AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT AND 504 POLICY
AND
ADOPTA NEW AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT POLICY

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS:

That the Chicago Board of Education (?Board?) rescind Board Report 12-0125-P01 Combined Americans
with Disabilities Act and 504 Policy and adopt a New Americans with Disabilities Act Policy.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this policy is to create a system for the Chicago Public Schools (?District") to
address disability?related accommodations requests and complaints for employees and other individuals
with disabilities accessing CPS premises in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act 

POLICY TEXT:

I. APPLICABILITY

This policy applies to accommodation requests and complaints under the ADA made by employees,
employment applicants, parents/guardians, community members, Local School Council members,
volunteers, and other persons with disabilities accessing CPS premises. The request and complaint
procedures set forth in this policy apply to requests for disability-based accommodations and allegations of
disability discrimination as described and prohibited in the Board?s Comprehensive Non-Discrimination,
Harassment, and Retaliation Policy and as otherwise described herein.

This policy does not address the rights or remedies afforded to Chicago Public Schools students with
disabilities under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), the individuals with Disabilities Education Act
(IDEA), or Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Section 504). Students? rights and remedies are
addressed in the Education of Students with Disabilities Policy, the IDEA Procedural Manual, Section 504
Procedural Manual, and other guidance documents developed by the Of?ce of Diverse Learner Supports
and Services (ODLSS).

II. SCOPE OF THE ADA

A. The ADA de?nes a disability as: a physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more major life activities; (ii) a record of such an impairment; or being regarded as having such an
impairment. The ADA also covers individuals who have an association with a person who has a disability.

B. The ADA prohibits discrimination in employment, public accommodations, transportation, state and
local government services and telecommunications based on an individual?s disability, record of a disability
or because the individual is regarded as having a disability.

C. No individual, by reason of a disability, record of a disability or because the individual is regarded
as having a disability, shall be excluded from participation in or be denied the bene?ts of District services,
programs and activities, or be subjected to discrimination by the District.



D. District services, programs and activities, when viewed in its entirety, are required to be accessible
to persons with disabilities. The District will accomplish this by, among other things, reassignment of
programs and events to accessible locations or renovation of existing facilities. However, a public entity is
not required to make structural changes in existing facilities where other methods are effective in achieving
compliance with this section, nor is it required to take any actions that would result in a fundamental
alteration in the nature of a service, program, or activity or in undue ?nancial and administrative burdens.

E. Communications with persons with disabilities are to be as effective as communications with others.
The District shall furnish auxiliary aids and services, such as qualified sign language interpreters and
alternate formats of written materials, where necessary to accomplish equally effective communications,
unless to do so would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a service, program, or activity or in
undue ?nancial and administrative burdens. If a requested action to provide effective communication would
result in such an alteration or such burdens, the District will take other action that would not result in such
an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that, to the maximum extent possible,
individuals with disabilities receive the bene?ts or services provided by the District.

F. No person may?be retaliated against for exercising rights under federal, state or local laws
pertaining to equal opportunities for individuals with disabilities, inciuding, but not limited to, making a
request, grievance or complaint, or participating in an investigation.

G. No person shall be discriminated against because of a relationship or association with a person
with a disability.
H. As defined by the Chicago Building Code, the Illinois Environmental Act and Title II and Title of

the ADA, all new construction and alterations of District-controlled buildings shalt be designed and
constructed in such a manner that the facility or altered part of the facility is readily accessible to and usable
by individuals with disabilities. In addition, alterations to a primary function area will be performed such that
the path of travel to that area is readily accessible to the extent required by law.

I. Additional information regarding the ADA and its applicability to District services, programs or
activities can be obtained from the District's Talent Of?ce and Americans with Disabilities Act and
Compliance Of?ce (ADA Office).

J. For Employees and Job Applicants: No person, by reason of a disability, record of a disability
or because the individual is regarded as having a disability, shall be discriminated against in any term or
condition of employment, so long as the person is quali?ed and can perform the essential functions of the
job in question, with or without reasonable accommodation. The duty to reasonably accommodate extends
to both employees and job applicants. Reasonable accommodations shall be provided unless the
modi?cation{s) would fundamentally alter the nature of the service, program or activity.

Ill. ACCOMMODATION REQUEST AND COMPLAINT PROCEDURES GENERAL
For the purposes of this policy, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
A. Definitions.

1. Accommodation Request: A request by or on behalf of an employee, job applicant, or any other
individual with disabilities accessing CPS premises to obtain any type of disability-retated

2



accommodation in order to participate equally in any District program, service or activity, including,
but not limited to:
a. Relocation of a work space or event to a wheelchair-accessible location;
b. Provision of specialized equipment for an employee;
c. Request for use of a service animal in a CPS school, on District property or at District
events;
d. A temporary or permanent building modi?cation;
Modi?cation of a facially neutral policy or guideline to provide equal access;
f. Provision of a sign language interpreter for a conference or a Braille/large print version of
a parent or employee handbook;

SD

2. Complaint: An allegation of discrimination regarding:

lntentional unequal or adverse treatment on the basis of disability;

Retaliation or harassment on the basis of disability;

Lack of equal access to CPS services, programs, or activities because of a disability;
Failure to reasonably accommodate; or

Any other type of disability-based discrimination not otherwise covered explicitly under this
policy or the Board?s Comprehensive Non-Discrimination, Harassment and Retaliation
Policy, which is implemented by the Equal Opportunity Compliance Office (EOCO).

$099.65?

B. Timeline and Procedure for Requestinq Reasonable Accommodations. Details regarding the
timeline and prOcedures for how empioyees, job applicants, and all other individuals with disabilities
accessing CPS premises can request reasonable accommodations are detailed in the Americans with
Disabilities Act (ADA) Procedural Manual.

C. ADA Coordinator. The ADA Coordinator for the District is: (1) the ADA Administrator and is the
person for the District who determines whether an employee, job applicant, or other individual quali?es for
an ADA accommodation and what that reasonable ac'commodation will be. These are not school based or
department based decisions. All principals and department heads must contact the ADA Administrator
when approached by an employee, visitor or other individual who requests an accommodation. (2) The
Capital and Facilities Programs? ADA designee makes the determinations regarding alterations to District
facilities. 

D. Publication of Procedures. The procedures for processing disability?related accommodations
requests and complaints is outlined in the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Procedural Manual, posted
on the Chicago Public Schools website and shall also be available in the ADA Of?ce.

E. Confidentiality. All information regarding accommodations requests, and complaints must be
treated as con?dential by Board employees and must be handled in accordance with ADA con?dentiality
requirements, in addition to any speci?c directions detailed below.

F. Non-Exclusion. Nothing in this policy prevents anyone from submitting a report of discrimination,
harassment, retaliation or non-compliance with this policy which they have witnessed or of which they have
knowledge.

19-1211-P06

iV. MEETINGS EVENTS

A. In accordance with the requirements of the ADA, public meetings and events, including but not
limited to Local School Council meetings, shall be held in a location that is accessible to individuals with
disabilities.

B. Reasonable accommodations must be made to enable parents/guardians, visitors, and other
individuals with disabilities accessing CPS premises to access non-public events, such as report card pick-
up, graduation, student performances, etc. if a school building is not accessible, the school principal, in
consultation with the ADA Administrator, will need to identify reasonable accommodations to provide access
to the non-public event, such as relocating the site for the event. 

C. Requests for relocation of meetings or events that are made pursuant to the Open Meetings
Act must be submitted in writing in advance of the event to: a) The school principal at which the desired
program, service, or activity is offered; b) The district department head of the applicable department; c) The
designated contact person, if any, for the desired program, service or activity; or d) The ADA Of?ce. The
ADA Of?ce may refer requests it receives to one of the other listed entities if doing so may address the
request more expeditiously.

D. Requests for auxiliary aids and/or other services such as sign ianguage interpreters, alternate
formats of written materials or other such accommodations in order to attend or participate in public
meetings and events must be submitted in accordance with the procedures above and should be submitted
in advance of the meeting or event.

E. A principal, district department head, or designated contact person who receives a request less
than two (2) business days before the scheduled event or meeting, should immediately forward the request
to the ADA Of?ce, along with any proposed resolution. The ADA Of?ce will attempt to respond to the request
before the event or meeting, to the extent practicable, 'given the amount of notice provided by the requestor,
the nature of the request, and the nature of the event or meeting.

V. LIMITATIONS

Ail terms above shall be interpreted as they are interpreted in the ADA. This policy is not intended to expand
or limit rights created by the ADA. Nothing in this poiicy is intended nor shall be construed to create a private
right of action against the Board or any of its employees. Furthermore, no part of this policy shall be
construed to create contractual or other rights or expectations. Nothing herein is intended to affect the right
of any person to make a charge of disability discrimination at any agency with jurisdiction over such claims.

Legal References: Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq); Illinois Open Meetings
Act (5 120-1 et seq.) 

19-1211-P06

Approved for Consideration: Approved:
yatfh 0% Janic .Jac son 
Chi nt icer Chief ecu Officer

Approved for Consideration:

 



anya D. M'??DadeU
Chief Education Officer

 

 



December 11, 2019

ADOPT A NEW EDUCATION OF STUDENTS WITH DISABILITIES POLICY

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS:

That the Chicago Board of Education (?Board") adopt a New Education of Students with Disabilities Policy.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this policy is to ensure the Chicago Public Schools (?District?)

provides a free appropriate public education in the least restrictive environment and necessary related
services to all students with disabilities enrolled in the District, as required by the Individuals With Disabilities
Education Act (IDEA) and implementing provisions of the School Code, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation
Act of 1973 (Section 504), and the Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA).

POLICY TEXT:
l. APPLICABILITY

This policy applies to all students with disabilities for whom it is determined, through definitions and
procedures described in the IDEA, Section 504, the ADA, and the Illinois State Board of Education's Special
Education rules that require special education services from the District. The term ?students with
disabilities? as used in this policy means students between the ages of 3 and 21, which is the day before
the student?s 22nd birthday.

II. STUDENTS WITH DISABILITIES ELIGIBLE UNDER THE IDEA

For students eligible for services under the IDEA, the District shall follow procedures for identification,
evaluation, placement, and delivery of services to students with disabilities provided in the Illinois State
Board of Education?s Special Education rules. The District?s Office of Diverse Learners Supports and
Services (ODLSS) will develop a?procedural manual establishing the procedures and guidelines for
providing special education and related services to students with disabilities in accordance with the IDEA.
All District schools, including charter, contract and option schools, must comply with the ODLSS IDEA
procedural manual and ensure staff attend all mandated ODLSS training on students with disabilities.

STUDENTS WITH DISABILITIES ELIGIBLE UNDER SECTION 504IADA

Students may be disabled within the meaning of Section even though they do not require services
pursuant to the IDEA. The District will develop procedures to ensure that students who are disabled within
the definition of Section are identified, evaluated, and provided with appropriate educational
services. The District shall also establish and implement a system of procedural safeguards which cover
students? identification, evaluation, educational placement, and a complaint resolution process. ODLSS
will develop a Section 504 procedural manual establishing the procedures and guidelines for identification,
evaluation, educational placement and complaint resolution options for students covered under Section
All District schools, including charter, contract and option schools, must comply with the ODLSS
Section 504 procedural manual and ensure staff attends all mandated ODLSS training on students with
disabilities.



IV. PUBLICATION OF PROCEDURES. 

The ODLSS IDEA and Section 504 procedural manuals shall be available on the ODLSS website. The
ODLSS IDEA and Section 504 procedural manuals will be posted in English and the top five other
languages.

v. LIMITATIONS

All terms above shall be interpreted as they are interpreted in the IDEA, Section 504, ADA and illinois
School Code. This policy is not intended to expand or limit rights created by the Section 504, ADA
and illinois School Code. Nothing in this policy is intended nor shall be construed to create a private right
of action against the Board or any of its employees. Furthermore, no part of this policy shall be construed
to create contractual or other rights or expectations. Nothing herein is intended to affect the right of any
person to make a charge of disability discrimination at any agency with jurisdiction over such claims.

LEGAL REFERENCES: Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq); individuals with
Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1400); Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U. S. C. 
794); illinois School Code (105 5/Art. 14) 4

 

 

Approved for Consideration: Approved:
.4tep?an' Janos 3/ nice . ack on
Chief Diverse Learn Supports Services hief cutiv Officer

   

Approved for Consideration:

  

19-1211-RU1

December 11, 2019

AMEND BOARD RULE 1-10 ON AN INTERIM BASIS

TO ADD TO THE FUNCTIONS OF THE FINANCE AND AUDIT COMMITTEE

THE GENERAL COUNSEL RECOMMENDS:

That the Board hereby amend Board Rule 1-10 as set forth below on an interim basis and will determine
any permanent change after the public comment period. 

TEXT:

Sec 1-10. Finance and Audit Committee. The Finance and Audit Committee shall consist of all members
of the Board of Education. The Board President shall designate a Committee Chairman. The Finance and
Audit Committee is authorized to;

g)

p)

g)
Q)

review the status of the Board?s budget and expenditures, review the expenses of the
Of?ceofthe Board, - -..-. - -- 
the?Beard,

receive reports from the Chief Executive Of?cer or the Chief Financial Of?cer regarding
issues related to the Board's ?nancial condition, and review the Board's procurement and
expense reimbursement policies and related matters;

conduc?ggublic hearinqs to gather input from the public on the district?s financial condition:
and

perform other responsibilities as are designated by the Board or the Board President.

   

 



itted:

General -. el



December 11, 2019

AMEND BOARD RULE 4-10 ON AN INTERIM BASIS
WITH RESPECT TO HOLIDAY PAY AND MAKE-UP DAYS

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

That the Board hereby amend Board Rule 4-10 as set forth below on an interim basis and determine any
permanent change after the public comment period.

Sec. 4-10. Holidays.

a. Holidays. Employees otherwise scheduled to work shall not be scheduled to work on Board holidays,
except as necessary for the security and maintenance of facilities. Holidays that fall on a Sunday shall be
observed on the Monday following the holiday. Holidays that fall on a Saturday shall not be observed.

b. Holiday Pay and Conditions for Holiday Pay. Employees, other than substitute teachers, and,part-
time/seasonal employees shall be paid their regular pay for the holiday. In the case of teachers, ?regular
pay" includes pay for extended day and regularly scheduled classes authorized on an overtime basis. To
be eligible for holiday pay, employees must work either the day before or the day after the holiday, unless
the employee has been approved to use sick or vacation benefit time on those days, except that appointed
and temporarily assigned teachers and principals who are appointed or assigned on the day after Labor
Day shall be eligible for holiday pay for the Labor Day holiday. Employees who are scheduled to work on
the day before or the dav after a holidav in order to make up for school davs (including professional
development. school improvement. teacher institute or parent conference davs) lost due to emergencies.
snow davs. cold weather davs or work stoppage davs shali?not become elioible for holidav pav for that
holiday. Other eligibility requirements may be established by collective bargaining agreements or Board
policies. 

0. Teachers? Religious Holidays. Appointed teachers shall be granted up to three (3) non-attendance days
with pay in a school year for the observance of religious holidays, which shall not be considered an absence,
provided that: I

1. The appointed teacher must give written notice to the school principal at least two (2) days in

advance of non-attendance for the religious holiday; and
2. The cost of providing a substitute teacher shall be deducted from the appointed teacher?s pay.

Approved:

  
       
  
  

on
let Ta nt 'cer

pproved for Consideration:

 



 

lfaTanya D. Mc a
Chief Education fficer

 



December 11,- 2019

BOARD RULE 4-14(b) ON AN INTERIM BASIS
WITH RESPECT TO BEREAVEMENT LEAVES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

That the Board hereby amend Board Rule 4-14(b) as set forth below on an interim basis and determine any
permanent change after the public comment period. This change will implement a provision of the 2019-
2024 Collective Bargaining Agreement with the Chicago Teachers Union.

Sec. 4-14. Other Leaves with Pay.

Except as otherwise provided in this Rule, the Chief Executive Officer, or his/her designee, may grant
leaves with pay to eligible employees, as set forth in this Rule. The Chief Executive Officer or his/her
designee shall establish procedures for applying for paid leaves under this Rule, which may include
additional procedural eligibility criteria. Employees granted leaves under this Rule shall continue to be
- eligible to participate in employee health and dental benefit plans, provided that they pay any required
employee premium contributions to maintain those benefits. Nothing in this Rule shall be construed to grant
a contract principal a leave of absence beyond the termination date of the contract principal?s contract: or
to extend the termination date of the principal?s contract.



b. Bereavement Leave. The Chief Executive Of?cer or his/her designee shall grant employees, other than
substitute teachers, and part-time/seasonal employee, paid bereavement leaves, as follows:

1. A leave not to exceed ten (10) week?days weekdays, including holidays and layoff days, at the

death of the eligible employee?s parent, garent-in?law, domestic or civil partner?s garent, spouse, domestic
partner, grandparent, child, brother, or sister of the employee, or stepparent married to a parent of the

employee, provided that the last ?ve (5) days of such a leave shall be applied against the employees? sick
leave bank; and

2. A leave not to exceed five (5) weekdays, including holidays and layoff days, at the death of the
eligible employee?s grandchild, fatheHn-laW?mether-in?law? brother-in-law, sister?in-law, son-in-law,
daughter-in-law, nephew, niece, uncle, aunt, or first cousin of the employee, provided that all days of such
leave shall be applied against the employee?s sick leave bank.

3. Bereavement da 3 ma be taken non-consecutivel rovided that the are taken in no more than
two installments within one month of the date of death.

 



Approved for Conside Approved:

    

 

  

 

 



Jacks-
Chief =r - utive Ifficer 

pro -. asto ,-gal or 

ml 
mm 
Jog-'7? ri :w
Chief Education Officer General Coun -el\




 

Board of Education
City of Chicago

 

Estela G. Beltran Of?ce of the Board Susan J. Narrajos
SECRETARY 1 North Dearborn Street, Suite 950, Chicago, Illinois 60602 ASSISTANT SECRETARY
(773) 553?1600 Fax (773) 553-1601

19-1211-C01 December 11, 2019

COMMUNICATION RE: LOCATION OF
BOARD JANUARY 22, 2020

Miguel del Valle President, and
Members of the Board of Education
Luisiana Melendez 
Sendhil Revuluri
Amy Rome
Lucino Sotelo
Elizabeth Todd-Breland
Dwayne Truss

This is to advise that the Regular Meeting of the Board of Education scheduled for Wednesday,
January 22, 2020 will be held at:

CPS Loop Office
42 W. Madison Street, Garden Level, Board Room
Chicago, lL 60602

The Board Meeting will begin at 10:30 am.
Public Participation Guidelines are available on or by calling (773) 553?1600.

For the January 22, 2020 Board Meeting, due to the Martin Luther King, Jr. holiday, advance registration
to speak and observe will be available beginning Friday, January 17th at 10:30 am. and will close on Tuesday,
January 21st at 5:00 pm. or until all slots are filled. You can advance register during the registration period by
the following methods:

. Online: (recommended)
. Phone: (773) 553-1600
. In Person: 1 North Dearborn, Suite 950

To ensure equity of access to address the Board, an individual may not speak at two (2) consecutive
Board Meetings. in the event an individual registers to speak at a consecutive Board Meeting, the individual will
not be called to address the Board.

Although Advance Registration Is recommended, you can also register to observe a meeting on the
day of a Board Meeting via.

. Same Day In Person Observer Registration: 42 W. Madison Street lobby
. Registration Time: Opens at 10:15 am. and will remain open for the duration of the Board
Meeting

Same Day, In- Person Observer Registrations are taken on a first come, first serve basis as seats
become available.

The Public Participation segment of the meeting will begin as indicated in the meeting agenda and
proceed for no more than 60 registered speakers for the two hours.

Sincerely,

WM)

Estela G. Beltran
Secretary

December 11, 2019

19-1211-EX1

TRANSFER OF FUNDS
Various Units and Objects
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:
The various transfers of funds were requested by the Central Office Departments during the month of November.
All transfers are budget neutral. A brief explanation of each transfer is provided below:
1.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

Transfer funds for transportation

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54210 Pupil Transportation
141501 Cte - Project Lead The Way
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Amount: $1,000

2.

Transfer from Diverse Learner Service Delivery to Diverse Learner Service Delivery
Rationale:

Supplies for DRS processing of requests, supplies for professional development sessions

Transfer From:
11673 Diverse Learner Service Delivery
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
221016 Odlss Transition Services
524024 Secondary Transitional Experience Program (Step)
Fy20

Transfer To:
11673 Diverse Learner Service Delivery
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
53405 Commodities - Supplies
221016 Odlss Transition Services
524024 Secondary Transitional Experience Program (Step)
Fy20

Amount: $1,000

3.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

Transfer for Travel per Lisa Washington

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
140060 Police And Fire Training - Voc
100398 Chicago Police And Fire Academy Training Program

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54220 Auto Reimbursement
140060 Police And Fire Training - Voc
100398 Chicago Police And Fire Academy Training Program

Amount: $1,000

4.

Transfer from Gage Park High School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
46141 Gage Park High School
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
53510 Commodities - Postage
241006 School Office Services
424086 Sig - Gage Park (Cohort 6) Fy19
Amount: $1,000

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

 19-1211-EX1
5.

Transfer from Chief Equity Office to Chief Equity Office
Rationale:

Supplied food expense.

Transfer From:
10465 Chief Equity Office
115 General Education Fund
54555 Meals, Lodging, & Travel - Other
233011 Equal Educ Opportunity-Admin
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
10465 Chief Equity Office
115 General Education Fund
53205 Commodities - Supplied Food
233011 Equal Educ Opportunity-Admin
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,000

6.

Transfer from Computer Science to Computer Science
Rationale:

For AP CSP quarterlies from Lumity per Carmen Edwards

Transfer From:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
210052 Computer Science For All Fy19

Transfer To:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
210052 Computer Science For All Fy19

Amount: $1,000

7.

Transfer from Department of JROTC to Kelvyn Park High School
Rationale:

Transfer needed for cadet transportation to events.

Transfer From:
05261 Department of JROTC
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113119 Rotc - Hs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46191 Kelvyn Park High School
115 General Education Fund
54210 Pupil Transportation
113119 Rotc - Hs
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,000

8.

Transfer from Department of JROTC to Kelvyn Park High School
Rationale:

Transfer needed for the purchase of tee shirts and arc pins.

Transfer From:
05261 Department of JROTC
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113119 Rotc - Hs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46191 Kelvyn Park High School
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
113119 Rotc - Hs
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,000

2

 19-1211-EX1
9.

Transfer from Sports Administration and Facilities Management - City Wide to Sports Administration and Facilities Management - City
Wide
Rationale:

Printing services - sponsorship

Transfer From:
13737 Sports Administration and Facilities Management - City
Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
150005 High School Sports
000867 Sports Administration Revenue

Transfer To:
13737 Sports Administration and Facilities Management - City
Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
54520 Services - Printing
150005 High School Sports
000867 Sports Administration Revenue

Amount: $1,000

10.

Transfer from Network 9 to Network 9
Rationale:

transferring funds for teacher PD bucket

Transfer From:
02491 Network 9
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
221080 Aio - Improvement Of Instruction
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
02491 Network 9
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,000

11.

Transfer from Citywide Student Support and Engagement to Citywide Student Support and Engagement
Rationale:

Transfer in order to open sub bucket

Transfer From:
10875 Citywide Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
390011 Community School Initiative
000044 Ctu Sustainable Schools Initiative

Transfer To:
10875 Citywide Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000044 Ctu Sustainable Schools Initiative

Amount: $1,000

12.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Independent Schools Of Chicago
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494071 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.
Amount: $1,004

3

Transfer To:
70140 Independent Schools Of Chicago
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
53405 Commodities - Supplies
228950 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Independent)
494072 Title Iia - Other Private Supplementary Servc.

 19-1211-EX1
13.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Independent Schools Of Chicago
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494071 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
70140 Independent Schools Of Chicago
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54205 Travel Expense
228950 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Independent)
494072 Title Iia - Other Private Supplementary Servc.

Amount: $1,012

14.

Transfer from William H Brown Elementary School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
22351 William H Brown Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51330 Benefits Pointer
290004 General Salary
S Bkt
500309 Magnet Schools Assistance Program (Cpsmsap)
Fy18-19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $1,016

15.

Transfer from YCCS-Youth Connection Leadership Acad HS to Chicago Math and Science Academy Charter School
Rationale:

Behavior consultant services provided by Gorbold Behavior Consulting approved through the FY19 IL-Empower grant.

Transfer From:
66629 YCCS-Youth Connection Leadership Acad HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
66281 Chicago Math and Science Academy Charter School
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
211001 Attendance & Social Work
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Amount: $1,030

16.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to CICS - Wrightwood
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition
Amount: $1,040

4

Transfer To:
66381 CICS - Wrightwood
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

 19-1211-EX1
17.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Noble - Gary Comer College Prep
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66146 Noble - Gary Comer College Prep
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $1,040

18.

Transfer from Carl Schurz High School to Citywide Student Support and Engagement
Rationale:

Aligning to approved grant budget

Transfer From:
46281 Carl Schurz High School
115 General Education Fund
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000044 Ctu Sustainable Schools Initiative

Transfer To:
10875 Citywide Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
390011 Community School Initiative
000044 Ctu Sustainable Schools Initiative

Amount: $1,041

19.

Transfer from Network 9 to Network 9
Rationale:

transferring funds for conference travel

Transfer From:
02491 Network 9
115 General Education Fund
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
221080 Aio - Improvement Of Instruction
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
02491 Network 9
115 General Education Fund
54205 Travel Expense
221080
000000

Aio - Improvement Of Instruction
Default Value

Amount: $1,050

20.

Transfer from Department of JROTC to Marie Sklodowska Curie Metropolitan High School
Rationale:

Transfer needed for the purchase of tee shirts and ribbons.

Transfer From:
05261 Department of JROTC
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113119 Rotc - Hs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
53101 Marie Sklodowska Curie Metropolitan High School
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
113119 Rotc - Hs
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,060

5

 19-1211-EX1
21.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Pope John Paul II/Five Holy Martyrs
Rationale:

Transfer funds for approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69101 Pope John Paul II/Five Holy Martyrs
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Amount: $1,078

22.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Pope John Paul II/Five Holy Martyrs
Rationale:

Transfer funds for approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69101 Pope John Paul II/Five Holy Martyrs
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
390007 Nonpublic Community Parent Involvement
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Amount: $1,078

23.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Rodolfo Lozano Bilingual & International Ctr ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-07 To Project# 2019-24101-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24101 Rodolfo Lozano Bilingual & International Ctr ES
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,090

24.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Countee Cullen Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-06 To Project# 2020-23891-MCR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23891 Countee Cullen Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,100

6

 19-1211-EX1
25.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

Transfer funds for seminar and fees

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
119035
474567

Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Amount: $1,100

26.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Sarah E. Goode STEM Academy
Rationale:

Supplies for STEM program

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
53305 Instructional Materials (Non-Digital)
125023 Stem - Extended Student Learning
008011 Stem Programs

Transfer To:
46611 Sarah E. Goode STEM Academy
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
125023 Stem - Extended Student Learning
008011 Stem Programs

Amount: $1,100

27.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Andrew Carnegie Elementary School
Rationale:

Carnegie K-8 OST Award Program Admin Award - Full

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22551 Andrew Carnegie Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,112

28.

Transfer from Ira F Aldridge Elementary School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
22641 Ira F Aldridge Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
53305 Instructional Materials (Non-Digital)
119061 Oip - Social Studies
542133 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity School (Dlos)
Fy19
Amount: $1,118

7

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

 19-1211-EX1
29.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Lutheran Education Foundation
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494071 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
69336 Lutheran Education Foundation
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
221022 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Lutheran)
494072 Title Iia - Other Private Supplementary Servc.

Amount: $1,120

30.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Southside Occupational Academy High School
Rationale:

SSOC Ag Incentive Purchases

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
53405 Commodities - Supplies
140101 Agricultural Academy
376808 Agriculture Education Fy20

Transfer To:
49031 Southside Occupational Academy High School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
53405 Commodities - Supplies
140101 Agricultural Academy
376808 Agriculture Education Fy20

Amount: $1,127

31.

Transfer from Nutrition Support Services - City Wide to Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
Rationale:

Equipment purchases.

Transfer From:
12050 Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
312 Lunchroom Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
266203 Technical Support
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12050 Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
312 Lunchroom Fund
55005 Property - Equipment
266203 Technical Support
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,136

32.

Transfer from Department of JROTC to Spry Community Links High School
Rationale:

Transfer needed drill team and flag accessories.

Transfer From:
05261 Department of JROTC
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113119 Rotc - Hs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46461 Spry Community Links High School
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
113119 Rotc - Hs
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,170

33.

Transfer from John Fiske Elementary School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
23221 John Fiske Elementary School
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
53305 Instructional Materials (Non-Digital)
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433137 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 7) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $1,171

8

 19-1211-EX1
34.

Transfer from Counseling and Postsecondary Advising to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds that dropped due to expenditure swap

Transfer From:
10850 Counseling and Postsecondary Advising
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
57305 Hospitalization & Dental Insurance - Employer
212013 Counseling & Guidance Services
322024 Career & Technical Educ. Improvement Grant (Ctei)
Fy20

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
322024 Career & Technical Educ. Improvement Grant (Ctei)
Fy20

Amount: $1,172

35.

Transfer from Acero Charter Schools - Carlos Fuentes to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66393 Acero Charter Schools - Carlos Fuentes
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
211001 Attendance & Social Work
433140 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 10) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $1,200

36.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Polaris Charter Academy
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
67081 Polaris Charter Academy
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $1,248

37.

Transfer from Teaching and Learning Office to John M Harlan Community Academy High School
Rationale:

Transfer to cover the cost of hosting Debate tournament

Transfer From:
10810 Teaching and Learning Office
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
150009 Debate - Middle School
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
51021 John M Harlan Community Academy High School
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
150008 Debate - High School
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,250

9

 19-1211-EX1
38.

Transfer from Teaching and Learning Office to Michele Clark Academic Prep Magnet High School
Rationale:

Transfer to cover the cost of hosting Debate tournament

Transfer From:
10810 Teaching and Learning Office
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
150009 Debate - Middle School
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
41051 Michele Clark Academic Prep Magnet High School
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
150008 Debate - High School
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,250

39.

Transfer from Teaching and Learning Office to South Loop Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer to cover cost of hosting middle school debate tournament

Transfer From:
10810 Teaching and Learning Office
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
150009 Debate - Middle School
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23751 South Loop Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
150009 Debate - Middle School
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,250

40.

Transfer from Teaching and Learning Office to James Hedges Elementary School
Rationale:

transfer to cover the cost of hosting middle school Debate tournament

Transfer From:
10810 Teaching and Learning Office
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
150009 Debate - Middle School
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23681 James Hedges Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
150009 Debate - Middle School
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,250

41.

Transfer from Teaching and Learning Office to Helen Peirce International Studies ES
Rationale:

transfer to cover the cost of hosting middle school Debate tournament

Transfer From:
10810 Teaching and Learning Office
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
150009 Debate - Middle School
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24891 Helen Peirce International Studies ES
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
150009 Debate - Middle School
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,250

42.

Transfer from Teaching and Learning Office to West Park Elementary Academy
Rationale:

transfer to cover the cost of hosting middle school Debate tournament

Transfer From:
10810 Teaching and Learning Office
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
150009 Debate - Middle School
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24721 West Park Elementary Academy
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
150009 Debate - Middle School
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,250

10

 19-1211-EX1
43.

Transfer from Department of JROTC to Albert G Lane Technical High School
Rationale:

Transfer needed for the purchase of cadet unit cords.

Transfer From:
05261 Department of JROTC
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113119 Rotc - Hs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46221 Albert G Lane Technical High School
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
113119 Rotc - Hs
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,260

44.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Arie Crown School
Rationale:

Transfer funds for approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69591 Arie Crown School
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54130 Services - Non Professional
300013 Non-Public Professional Development
430239 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Jewish

Amount: $1,275

45.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Hillel Torah
Rationale:

Transfer funds for approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69595 Hillel Torah
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54130 Services - Non Professional
300013 Non-Public Professional Development
430239 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Jewish

Amount: $1,275

46.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to St Bede The Venerable School
Rationale:

Transfer funds for approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69053 St Bede The Venerable School
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
390007 Nonpublic Community Parent Involvement
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Amount: $1,290

47.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

To pay for recruitment supplies for CPFTA.

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
140060 Police And Fire Training - Voc
100398 Chicago Police And Fire Academy Training Program
Amount: $1,291

11

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
53405 Commodities - Supplies
140060 Police And Fire Training - Voc
100398 Chicago Police And Fire Academy Training Program

 19-1211-EX1
48.

Transfer from Principal Quality to John H Hamline Elementary School
Rationale:

innovation funds disbursement

Transfer From:
02541 Principal Quality
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090
070901

Transfer To:
23511 John H Hamline Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
070901 Executive Principals Program

Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
Executive Principals Program

Amount: $1,300

49.

Transfer from Arts to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
336 NCLB Title V Fund
54215 Car Fare
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
500025 Project Cultivate Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
336 NCLB Title V Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $1,315

50.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to CICS - Longwood
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66061 CICS - Longwood
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $1,352

51.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Hope Learning Academy
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition
Amount: $1,352

12

Transfer To:
63031 Hope Learning Academy
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

 19-1211-EX1
52.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494071 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54205 Travel Expense
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494071 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Amount: $1,353

53.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to North-Grand High School
Rationale:

CTE Culinary Arts program Equipment

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
322024 Career & Technical Educ. Improvement Grant (Ctei)
Fy20

Transfer To:
46431 North-Grand High School
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
55005 Property - Equipment
140505 Culinary Arts
322024 Career & Technical Educ. Improvement Grant (Ctei)
Fy20

Amount: $1,370

54.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Michele Clark Academic Prep Magnet High School
Rationale:

Student Transportation for STEM program

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
54210 Pupil Transportation
125023 Stem - Extended Student Learning
008011 Stem Programs

Transfer To:
41051 Michele Clark Academic Prep Magnet High School
115 General Education Fund
54210 Pupil Transportation
125023 Stem - Extended Student Learning
008011 Stem Programs

Amount: $1,375

55.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Heritage Leadership Academy
Rationale:

Transfer funds for approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic
Amount: $1,380

13

Transfer To:
69605 Heritage Leadership Academy
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370003 Nonpublic Fine Arts
430237 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Christian

 19-1211-EX1
56.

Transfer from Northside College Preparatory High School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

Sweeping Funds for Fund 124 Reimbursable Funds

Transfer From:
46061 Northside College Preparatory High School
124 School Special Income Fund
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
002239 Internal Accounts Book Transfers

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600005 Special Income Fund 124 - Contingency
002239 Internal Accounts Book Transfers

Amount: $1,402

57.

Transfer from Jacqueline B Vaughn Occupational High School to School Transportation - City Wide
Rationale:

For 1000 CPS 2 Ride Limited Use Ticket - RITM0347347

Transfer From:
49081 Jacqueline B Vaughn Occupational High School
115 General Education Fund
54210 Pupil Transportation
140070 Career Employment Preparation
000576 Supplemental Aid

Transfer To:
11940 School Transportation - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
54210 Pupil Transportation
255052 General Transportation Services
000576 Supplemental Aid

Amount: $1,428

58.

Transfer from YCCS-Truman Middle College HS to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66625 YCCS-Truman Middle College HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $1,435

59.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Chicago Vocational Career Academy High School
Rationale:

To Purchase Supplies for CVCA Ag Incentive Grant

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
53405 Commodities - Supplies
140101 Agricultural Academy
376808 Agriculture Education Fy20

Transfer To:
53011 Chicago Vocational Career Academy High School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
53405 Commodities - Supplies
140101 Agricultural Academy
376808 Agriculture Education Fy20

Amount: $1,441

60.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Noble - Butler College Prep
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition
Amount: $1,456

14

Transfer To:
66576 Noble - Butler College Prep
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

 19-1211-EX1
61.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Bridgescape Academy Humboldt Park
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
65020 Bridgescape Academy Humboldt Park
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $1,456

62.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Dr Jorge Prieto Math and Science
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-22581-OEI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22581 Dr Jorge Prieto Math and Science
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,475

63.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Resurrection High School
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IV programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
358 Title IV
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
440047 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
69398 Resurrection High School
358 Title IV
55005 Property - Equipment
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
440047 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Amount: $1,498

64.

Transfer from Roger C Sullivan High School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
46301 Roger C Sullivan High School
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433134 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 4) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $1,500

15

 19-1211-EX1
65.

Transfer from Talent Office to Talent Office
Rationale:

PO for an online platform of Educational content.

Transfer From:
11010 Talent Office
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
262005 Educator Effectiveness
542134 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity School (Dlos)
Fy20

Transfer To:
11010 Talent Office
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
262005 Educator Effectiveness
542134 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity School (Dlos)
Fy20

Amount: $1,500

66.

Transfer from Arts to Information & Technology Services
Rationale:

Board Phone for new Manager of Student Programs, Melisa Rutkelis.

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113034 Performing & Creative Arts
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12510 Information & Technology Services
115 General Education Fund
54405 Services - Telephone & Telegraph
254501 Telecom (Non E-Rate)
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,500

67.

Transfer from Department of JROTC to Bowen High School
Rationale:

Transfer needed for Bowen JROTC shirts.

Transfer From:
05261 Department of JROTC
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113119 Rotc - Hs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46491 Bowen High School
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
113119 Rotc - Hs
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,508

68.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

CTE Chicago Builds Welding Program Supplies

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20
Amount: $1,514

16

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
53405 Commodities - Supplies
144603 Cte- Construction
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

 19-1211-EX1
69.

Transfer from Network 4 to Network 4
Rationale:

Budget transfer to benefit pointer line to cover benefits to open up a sub bucket for professional development.

Transfer From:
02441 Network 4
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
221080 Aio - Improvement Of Instruction
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
02441 Network 4
115 General Education Fund
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,517

70.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

CTE Equipment Move

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
56105 Services - Repair Contracts
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Amount: $1,520

71.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to St Thomas Of Canterbury School
Rationale:

Transfer funds for approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69288 St Thomas Of Canterbury School
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
217662 Iasa-Nonpublic Summer
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Amount: $1,541

72.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Percy L Julian High School
Rationale:

Transfer funds for student transportation

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
322024 Career & Technical Educ. Improvement Grant (Ctei)
Fy20
Amount: $1,560

17

Transfer To:
46401 Percy L Julian High School
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54210 Pupil Transportation
212040 Elementary Career Development
322024 Career & Technical Educ. Improvement Grant (Ctei)
Fy20

 19-1211-EX1
73.

Transfer from Computer Science to Computer Science
Rationale:

Transfer to spend down grant - Tuition

Transfer From:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
210052 Computer Science For All Fy19

Transfer To:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54305 Tuition
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
210052 Computer Science For All Fy19

Amount: $1,600

74.

Transfer from Social Science & Civic Engagement to Social Science & Civic Engagement
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for bucket to replace 553428

Transfer From:
10813 Social Science & Civic Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
390003 Service Learning
409427 Calumet Is My Back Yard Cimby 19-20

Transfer To:
10813 Social Science & Civic Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
409427 Calumet Is My Back Yard Cimby 19-20

Amount: $1,611

75.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IV programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
358 Title IV
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
440047 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
358 Title IV
53405 Commodities - Supplies
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
440047 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Amount: $1,611

76.

Transfer from Department of JROTC to Charles P Steinmetz College Preparatory HS
Rationale:

Transfer needed for uniform items, Archs, and cords.

Transfer From:
05261 Department of JROTC
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113119 Rotc - Hs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46291 Charles P Steinmetz College Preparatory HS
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
113119 Rotc - Hs
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,624

77.

Transfer from YCCS-Jane Addams Alternative HS to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66618 YCCS-Jane Addams Alternative HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $1,624

18

 19-1211-EX1
78.

Transfer from Nutrition Support Services - City Wide to Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
Rationale:

School lunch related expenses.

Transfer From:
12050 Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
312 Lunchroom Fund
55005 Property - Equipment
256009 Food Service
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12050 Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
312 Lunchroom Fund
54560 Delivery Service
256009 Food Service
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,650

79.

Transfer from Pre-K - 12 Curriculum to Little Village Multiplex
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for space rental for Battle of the Books Annual Event per K. Thorstenson.

Transfer From:
10814 Pre-K - 12 Curriculum
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
221220 Library Automation
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
49121 Little Village Multiplex
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
221220 Library Automation
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,650

80.

Transfer from YCCS- McKinley Lakeside Leadership HS to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66107 YCCS- McKinley Lakeside Leadership HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $1,677

81.

Transfer from Walter Payton College Preparatory High School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

Sweeping Funds for Fund 124 Reimbursable Funds

Transfer From:
70020 Walter Payton College Preparatory High School
124 School Special Income Fund
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
002239 Internal Accounts Book Transfers
Amount: $1,693

19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600005 Special Income Fund 124 - Contingency
002239 Internal Accounts Book Transfers

 19-1211-EX1
82.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IV programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
358 Title IV
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958
440047

Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
358 Title IV
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
440047 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Amount: $1,700

83.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Ida Crown Jewish Academy
Rationale:

Transfer funds for approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69361 Ida Crown Jewish Academy
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54130 Services - Non Professional
300013 Non-Public Professional Development
430239 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Jewish

Amount: $1,700

84.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Lubavitch Girls High School
Rationale:

Transfer funds for approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69039 Lubavitch Girls High School
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54130 Services - Non Professional
300013 Non-Public Professional Development
430239 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Jewish

Amount: $1,700

85.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Parkside Elementary Community Academy
Rationale:

Parkside K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
320020 Other After Schools Programs
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19
Amount: $1,712

20

Transfer To:
31201 Parkside Elementary Community Academy
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

 19-1211-EX1
86.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Henry H Nash Elementary School
Rationale:

Nash R K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24641 Henry H Nash Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,712

87.

Transfer from Department of JROTC to Carl Schurz High School
Rationale:

Transfer needed for the purchase of JROTC cords and supplies.

Transfer From:
05261 Department of JROTC
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113119 Rotc - Hs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46281 Carl Schurz High School
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
113119 Rotc - Hs
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,729

88.

Transfer from Department of JROTC to Nicholas Senn High School
Rationale:

Transfer needed for PT suits and Medal sets.

Transfer From:
05261 Department of JROTC
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113119 Rotc - Hs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
47061 Nicholas Senn High School
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
113119 Rotc - Hs
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,742

89.

Transfer from Department of JROTC to Englewood STEM HS
Rationale:

Transfer needed for the purchase of JROTC medal sets and PT uniforms.

Transfer From:
05261 Department of JROTC
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113119 Rotc - Hs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46691 Englewood STEM HS
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
113119 Rotc - Hs
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,742

90.

Transfer from Department of JROTC to Charles Allen Prosser Career Academy High School
Rationale:

Transfer needed for cadet travel to Orienteering, Archery, and LET I Drill events.

Transfer From:
05261 Department of JROTC
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113119 Rotc - Hs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
53041 Charles Allen Prosser Career Academy High School
115 General Education Fund
54210 Pupil Transportation
113119 Rotc - Hs
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,750

21

 19-1211-EX1
91.

Transfer from Department of JROTC to Carl Schurz High School
Rationale:

Transfer needed for cadet transportation to events.

Transfer From:
05261 Department of JROTC
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113119 Rotc - Hs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46281 Carl Schurz High School
115 General Education Fund
54210 Pupil Transportation
113119 Rotc - Hs
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,750

92.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Joseph Lovett Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-24241-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24241 Joseph Lovett Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,785

93.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494071 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54305 Tuition
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494071 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Amount: $1,791

94.

Transfer from Department of Personalized Learning to Ashburn Community Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for EdTech Licenses.

Transfer From:
10825 Department of Personalized Learning
358 Title IV
53307 Commodities: Software Licenses (Instructional)
119070 Personalized Learning Instruction
440046 Title Iv, Part A
Amount: $1,800

22

Transfer To:
32081 Ashburn Community Elementary School
358 Title IV
53307 Commodities: Software Licenses (Instructional)
119070 Personalized Learning Instruction
440046 Title Iv, Part A

 19-1211-EX1
95.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Chicago Military Academy High School
Rationale:

Supplies for STEM program

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
125023 Stem - Extended Student Learning
008011 Stem Programs

Transfer To:
70070 Chicago Military Academy High School
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
125023 Stem - Extended Student Learning
008011 Stem Programs

Amount: $1,800

96.

Transfer from Department of JROTC to Benito Juarez Community Academy High School
Rationale:

Transfer needed to purchase sweatshirts for physical training.

Transfer From:
05261 Department of JROTC
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113119 Rotc - Hs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46421 Benito Juarez Community Academy High School
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
113119 Rotc - Hs
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,820

97.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William H Prescott Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2018-488-00-10 To Project# 2019-25021-MCR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25021 William H Prescott Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,835

98.

Transfer from William H Prescott Elementary School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2019-25021-MCR To Award# 2018-488-00-10 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
25021 William H Prescott Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,835

23

 19-1211-EX1
99.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William H Prescott Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2018-488-00-10 To Project# 2019-25021-MCR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25021 William H Prescott Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,835

100.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Charles P Steinmetz College Preparatory HS
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2018-488-00-08 To Project# 2019-46291-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46291 Charles P Steinmetz College Preparatory HS
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,845

101.

Transfer from Walter Payton College Preparatory High School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

Sweeping Funds for Fund 124 Reimbursable Funds

Transfer From:
70020 Walter Payton College Preparatory High School
124 School Special Income Fund
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
002239 Internal Accounts Book Transfers

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600005 Special Income Fund 124 - Contingency
002239 Internal Accounts Book Transfers

Amount: $1,868

102.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Mary Lyon Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-427-00-01 To Project# 2018-24281-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24281 Mary Lyon Elementary School
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,875

103.

Transfer from Department of JROTC to Albert G Lane Technical High School
Rationale:

Transfer needed for cadet transportation to fild trips.

Transfer From:
05261 Department of JROTC
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113119 Rotc - Hs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46221 Albert G Lane Technical High School
115 General Education Fund
54210 Pupil Transportation
113119 Rotc - Hs
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $1,900

24

 19-1211-EX1
104.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to George F Cassell Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2018-488-00-10 To Project# 2018-22651-MCR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22651 George F Cassell Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,932

105.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Jane Addams Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2020-22021-OFA ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22021 Jane Addams Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,935

106.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Mary Lyon Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-427-00-01 To Project# 2018-24281-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24281 Mary Lyon Elementary School
427 CIP Series 2016B
56302 Capitalized Equipment
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,941

107.

Transfer from Mary Lyon Elementary School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2018-24281-ACD To Award# 2020-427-00-01 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
24281 Mary Lyon Elementary School
427 CIP Series 2016B
56302 Capitalized Equipment
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,941

108.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Mary Lyon Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-427-00-01 To Project# 2018-24281-ACD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24281 Mary Lyon Elementary School
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $1,941

25

 19-1211-EX1
109.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Noble - Rowe-Clark Math and Science Academy
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66144 Noble - Rowe-Clark Math and Science Academy
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $1,976

110.

Transfer from Talent Office to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
11010 Talent Office
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
53305 Instructional Materials (Non-Digital)
262005 Educator Effectiveness
542133 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity School (Dlos)
Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $1,982

111.

Transfer from Network 2 to Network 2
Rationale:

Funds are needed to purchase office supplies.

Transfer From:
02421 Network 2
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
221080 Aio - Improvement Of Instruction
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
02421 Network 2
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
232105 Region Office-Support
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,000

112.

Transfer from Network 6 to Network 6
Rationale:

Transfer needed to cover PD days

Transfer From:
02461 Network 6
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
000000 Default Value
Amount: $2,000

26

Transfer To:
02461 Network 6
115 General Education Fund
51130 Teacher Salaries - Extended Day
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
000000 Default Value

 19-1211-EX1
113.

Transfer from Network 6 to Network 6
Rationale:

Transfer needed to cover PD for ESPs

Transfer From:
02461 Network 6
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
02461 Network 6
115 General Education Fund
52130 Career Service Salaries - Extended Day
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,000

114.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Associated Talmud Torah Of
Rationale:

Chicago

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IV programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
358 Title IV
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958
440047

Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
69530 Associated Talmud Torah Of Chicago
358 Title IV
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
228953 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Jewish)
440047 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Amount: $2,000

115.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Yeshivas Tiferes TZVI
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools IDEA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
220 Federal Special Education IDEA Programs
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
462074 Lea Flowthru Instruction - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
69442 Yeshivas Tiferes TZVI
220 Federal Special Education IDEA Programs
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370013 Federal - Idea Nonpublic (Jewish)
462074 Lea Flowthru Instruction - Nonpublic

Amount: $2,000

116.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Shaarei Chinuch Day School
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools IDEA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
220 Federal Special Education IDEA Programs
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
462074 Lea Flowthru Instruction - Nonpublic
Amount: $2,000

27

Transfer To:
69629 Shaarei Chinuch Day School
220 Federal Special Education IDEA Programs
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370013 Federal - Idea Nonpublic (Jewish)
462074 Lea Flowthru Instruction - Nonpublic

 19-1211-EX1
117.

Transfer from Citywide Student Support and Engagement to Citywide Student Support and Engagement
Rationale:

CSI Adult Instruction Services

Transfer From:
10875 Citywide Student Support and Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
442196 21st Century Community Learning Centers (Cohort
19-Grant 4) Fy20

Transfer To:
10875 Citywide Student Support and Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
390008 Other Government Funded - Community Services
442196 21st Century Community Learning Centers (Cohort
19-Grant 4) Fy20

Amount: $2,000

118.

Transfer from Teaching and Learning Office to Chicago Vocational Career Academy High School
Rationale:

Transfer to cover the cost of hosting the Chess Prep Bowl Tournament

Transfer From:
10810 Teaching and Learning Office
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
150013 Chess Program
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
53011 Chicago Vocational Career Academy High School
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
150013 Chess Program
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $2,000

119.

Transfer from Teaching and Learning Office to William J Bogan High School
Rationale:

Transfer to cover the cost of Hosting Debate Tournament

Transfer From:
10810 Teaching and Learning Office
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
150009 Debate - Middle School
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46041 William J Bogan High School
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
150008 Debate - High School
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $2,000

120.

Transfer from Teaching and Learning Office to Friedrich W von Steuben Metropolitan Science HS
Rationale:

Transfer to cover the cost of Hosting Debate Tournament

Transfer From:
10810 Teaching and Learning Office
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
150009 Debate - Middle School
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
47081 Friedrich W von Steuben Metropolitan Science HS
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
150008 Debate - High School
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $2,000

28

 19-1211-EX1
121.

Transfer from Teaching and Learning Office to Gurdon S Hubbard High School
Rationale:

Transfer to cover cost of transportation for Debate program

Transfer From:
10810 Teaching and Learning Office
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
150010 Science Fair
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46341 Gurdon S Hubbard High School
115 General Education Fund
54210 Pupil Transportation
150008 Debate - High School
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $2,000

122.

Transfer from Magnet, Gifted and IB Programs to James B McPherson Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for gifted programming.

Transfer From:
10845 Magnet, Gifted and IB Programs
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
230010 Administrative Support
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24471 James B McPherson Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
008004 International Gifted Programs

Amount: $2,000

123.

Transfer from Computer Science to Computer Science
Rationale:

Transfer to spend down grant - Instructional Materials

Transfer From:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
210052 Computer Science For All Fy19

Transfer To:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
53305 Instructional Materials (Non-Digital)
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
210052 Computer Science For All Fy19

Amount: $2,000

124.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Englewood STEM HS
Rationale:

Seminar Fees and Subscriptions for STEM program

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
125023
008011

Transfer To:
46691 Englewood STEM HS
115 General Education Fund
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
125023 Stem - Extended Student Learning
008011 Stem Programs

Stem - Extended Student Learning
Stem Programs

Amount: $2,000

29

 19-1211-EX1
125.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Englewood STEM HS
Rationale:

Supplies for STEM program

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
125023 Stem - Extended Student Learning
008011 Stem Programs

Transfer To:
46691 Englewood STEM HS
115 General Education Fund
53305 Instructional Materials (Non-Digital)
125023 Stem - Extended Student Learning
008011 Stem Programs

Amount: $2,000

126.

Transfer from Talent Office - City Wide to Talent Office - City Wide
Rationale:

Transfer fund is needed to purchase supplies for the Teacher Residency Job Fairs.

Transfer From:
11070 Talent Office - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
264207 Teacher Sourcing & Recruitment
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
11070 Talent Office - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
264207
000000

Teacher Sourcing & Recruitment
Default Value

Amount: $2,000

127.

Transfer from Englewood STEM HS to Sarah E. Goode STEM Academy
Rationale:

Correcting previous error. Textbooks for STEM program.

Transfer From:
46691 Englewood STEM HS
115 General Education Fund
53305 Instructional Materials (Non-Digital)
125023 Stem - Extended Student Learning
008011 Stem Programs

Transfer To:
46611 Sarah E. Goode STEM Academy
115 General Education Fund
53305 Instructional Materials (Non-Digital)
125023 Stem - Extended Student Learning
008011 Stem Programs

Amount: $2,000

128.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William E Dever Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-04 To Project# 2020-22941-OBI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22941 William E Dever Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,030

30

 19-1211-EX1
129.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Hanna Sachs Bias Yaakov
Rationale:

High School Of Chicago

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools IDEA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
220
57915
370004
462074

Federal Special Education IDEA Programs
Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
Lea Flowthru Instruction - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
69141 Hanna Sachs Bias Yaakov
High School Of
Chicago
220 Federal Special Education IDEA Programs
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370013 Federal - Idea Nonpublic (Jewish)
462074 Lea Flowthru Instruction - Nonpublic

Amount: $2,030

130.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Hanna Sachs Bias Yaakov
Rationale:

High School Of Chicago

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools IDEA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
220
57915
370004
462074

Federal Special Education IDEA Programs
Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
Lea Flowthru Instruction - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
69141 Hanna Sachs Bias Yaakov
High School Of
Chicago
220 Federal Special Education IDEA Programs
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370013 Federal - Idea Nonpublic (Jewish)
462074 Lea Flowthru Instruction - Nonpublic

Amount: $2,030

131.

Transfer from Jacqueline B Vaughn Occupational High School to School Transportation - City Wide
Rationale:

For 700 CPS 2 Ride Limited Use Ticket - RITM0347347

Transfer From:
49081 Jacqueline B Vaughn Occupational High School
115 General Education Fund
54210 Pupil Transportation
140070 Career Employment Preparation
000576 Supplemental Aid

Transfer To:
11940 School Transportation - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
54210 Pupil Transportation
255052 General Transportation Services
000576 Supplemental Aid

Amount: $2,040

132.

Transfer from Department of JROTC to Gurdon S Hubbard High School
Rationale:

Transfer needed for snare drums for Drum & Bugle.

Transfer From:
05261 Department of JROTC
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113119 Rotc - Hs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46341 Gurdon S Hubbard High School
115 General Education Fund
55005 Property - Equipment
113119 Rotc - Hs
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $2,060

31

 19-1211-EX1
133.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

CTE Auto Tech Program Equipment

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
53405 Commodities - Supplies
144606 Carpentry
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Amount: $2,069

134.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Charles Allen Prosser Career Academy High School
Rationale:

CTE Auto Tech Program Equipment (correcting previous misplacement)

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
53405 Commodities - Supplies
144606 Carpentry
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Transfer To:
53041 Charles Allen Prosser Career Academy High School
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
55005 Property - Equipment
144701 Automotive Mechanic
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Amount: $2,069

135.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958
494071

Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494071 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Amount: $2,074

136.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Joan Dachs Bais Yaakov Elem
Rationale:

Transfer funds for approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic
Amount: $2,125

32

Transfer To:
69314 Joan Dachs Bais Yaakov Elem
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54130 Services - Non Professional
300013 Non-Public Professional Development
430239 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Jewish

 19-1211-EX1
137.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Yeshivas Tiferes TZVI
Rationale:

Transfer funds for approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69442 Yeshivas Tiferes TZVI
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54130 Services - Non Professional
300013 Non-Public Professional Development
430239 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Jewish

Amount: $2,125

138.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to University of Chicago - Donoghue
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2020-66321-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
66321 University of Chicago - Donoghue
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,130

139.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to St Ailbe
Rationale:

Transfer funds for approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69029 St Ailbe
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
217662 Iasa-Nonpublic Summer
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Amount: $2,136

140.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Nathan S Davis Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-22891-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22891 Nathan S Davis Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,139

141.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Air Force Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-45231-OEI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
45231 Air Force Academy High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,147

33

 19-1211-EX1
142.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Southside Occupational Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-17 To Project# 2018-49031-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009551 Masonary/Windows
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
49031 Southside Occupational Academy High School
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,159

143.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Dr Jorge Prieto Math and Science
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-22581-OHI-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22581 Dr Jorge Prieto Math and Science
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,180

144.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Noble - The Noble Academy
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66578 Noble - The Noble Academy
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $2,184

145.

Transfer from Department of JROTC to Gurdon S Hubbard High School
Rationale:

Transfer needed for snare drums for Drum & Bugle.

Transfer From:
05261 Department of JROTC
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113119 Rotc - Hs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46341 Gurdon S Hubbard High School
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
113119 Rotc - Hs
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $2,193

146.

Transfer from Frazier Preparatory Academy Charter School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
26901 Frazier Preparatory Academy Charter School
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19
Amount: $2,200

34

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

 19-1211-EX1
147.

Transfer from YCCS-Youth Connection Leadership Acad HS to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66629 YCCS-Youth Connection Leadership Acad HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $2,200

148.

Transfer from John F Eberhart Elementary School to Information & Technology Services
Rationale:

RITM0347097-budget transfer request for new telephone line installation.EMS Ticket Number # 129664

Transfer From:
23041 John F Eberhart Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
54405 Services - Telephone & Telegraph
254501 Telecom (Non E-Rate)
000575 Student Based Budgeting

Transfer To:
12510 Information & Technology Services
115 General Education Fund
54405 Services - Telephone & Telegraph
254501 Telecom (Non E-Rate)
000575 Student Based Budgeting

Amount: $2,216

149.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Orville T Bright Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2020-22331-ODR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22331 Orville T Bright Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,228

150.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Christian Affiliate Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IV programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
358 Title IV
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958
440047

Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Amount: $2,232

35

Transfer To:
69237 Christian Affiliate Schools
358 Title IV
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
228952 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Christian)
440047 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

 19-1211-EX1
151.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Mercy Home for Girls
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Neglected Sites

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
334 NCLB Title 1 - Neglected & Delinquent
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125008 Title I - Neglected & Delinquent Programs
430526 Neglected Programs Fy20

Transfer To:
69013 Mercy Home for Girls
334 NCLB Title 1 - Neglected & Delinquent
53405 Commodities - Supplies
125008 Title I - Neglected & Delinquent Programs
430526 Neglected Programs Fy20

Amount: $2,247

152.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Joshua D Kershaw Elementary School
Rationale:

Kershaw K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
320020 Other After Schools Programs
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

Transfer To:
23991 Joshua D Kershaw Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

Amount: $2,249

153.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Edgar Allan Poe Elementary Classical School
Rationale:

Poe K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
320020 Other After Schools Programs
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

Transfer To:
29261 Edgar Allan Poe Elementary Classical School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

Amount: $2,249

154.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Dunne Technology Academy
Rationale:

Dunne K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25491 Dunne Technology Academy
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $2,249

155.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Frazier Prospective IB Magnet ES
Rationale:

Frazier K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29411 Frazier Prospective IB Magnet ES
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $2,249

36

 19-1211-EX1
156.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Wendell Smith Elementary School
Rationale:

Smith K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23641 Wendell Smith Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $2,249

157.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Edward White Elementary Career Academy
Rationale:

White K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26431 Edward White Elementary Career Academy
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $2,249

158.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Woodlawn Community Elementary School
Rationale:

Woodlawn K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23631 Woodlawn Community Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $2,249

159.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Paul Revere Elementary School
Rationale:

Revere K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25121 Paul Revere Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $2,249

160.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Noble - Baker College Prep
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition
Amount: $2,288

37

Transfer To:
66577 Noble - Baker College Prep
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

 19-1211-EX1
161.

Transfer from Teaching and Learning Office to Robert Lindblom Math & Science Academy HS
Rationale:

Hosting funds for Debate Tournament

Transfer From:
10810 Teaching and Learning Office
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
150008 Debate - High School
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46511 Robert Lindblom Math & Science Academy HS
115 General Education Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
150008 Debate - High School
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $2,300

162.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Little Village Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-10 To Project# 2020-22521-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009506 Asset Management Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22521 Little Village Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,313

163.

Transfer from John Hay Elementary Community Academy to Information & Technology Services
Rationale:

SCTASK0347532 RITM0334128 Customer need to purchase a 4025 set to be installed in room 203 where there is no available voice
jack.

Transfer From:
31111 John Hay Elementary Community Academy
115 General Education Fund
53305 Instructional Materials (Non-Digital)
119015 Reading
000575 Student Based Budgeting

Transfer To:
12510 Information & Technology Services
115 General Education Fund
54405 Services - Telephone & Telegraph
254501 Telecom (Non E-Rate)
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,356

164.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Mahalia Jackson Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-26651-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26651 Mahalia Jackson Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,399

38

 19-1211-EX1
165.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

Payment for Choose Your Future Website.

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Amount: $2,400

166.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Mercy Home for Boys
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Neglected Sites

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
334 NCLB Title 1 - Neglected & Delinquent
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125008 Title I - Neglected & Delinquent Programs
430526 Neglected Programs Fy20

Transfer To:
69063 Mercy Home for Boys
334 NCLB Title 1 - Neglected & Delinquent
53405 Commodities - Supplies
125008 Title I - Neglected & Delinquent Programs
430526 Neglected Programs Fy20

Amount: $2,417

167.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Gage Park High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-46141-OFA ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46141 Gage Park High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,423

168.

Transfer from Computer Science to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290004 General Salary
S Bkt
548024 Track 2 Cs10k: Accelerate Ecs4all Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $2,435

169.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Lutheran Education Foundation
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494071 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.
Amount: $2,443

39

Transfer To:
69336 Lutheran Education Foundation
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54205 Travel Expense
221022 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Lutheran)
494072 Title Iia - Other Private Supplementary Servc.

 19-1211-EX1
170.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Charles S Deneen Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-22931-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22931 Charles S Deneen Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,453

171.

Transfer from Edward E. Sadlowski Elementary School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2014-22631-NSC To Award# 2017-427-00-27 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
22631 Edward E. Sadlowski Elementary School
427 CIP Series 2016B
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
009441 New School Openings
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253544 Child Award
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,466

172.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Edward E. Sadlowski Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-427-00-27 To Project# 2014-22631-NSC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253544 Child Award
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22631 Edward E. Sadlowski Elementary School
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
009441 New School Openings
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,466

173.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Louisa May Alcott College Preparatory ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-22041-OHI-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22041 Louisa May Alcott College Preparatory ES
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,495

174.

Transfer from Arts to Arts
Rationale:

Transfer requested for Year 2 Allocation per Grant Budget from Misc. - Contingent Projects line.

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
336 NCLB Title V Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
500026 Project Cultivate Fy20

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
336 NCLB Title V Fund
54215 Car Fare
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
500026 Project Cultivate Fy20

Amount: $2,500

40

 19-1211-EX1
175.

Transfer from Network 9 to Network 9
Rationale:

transferring funds for teacher PD bucket

Transfer From:
02491 Network 9
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
221080 Aio - Improvement Of Instruction
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
02491 Network 9
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,500

176.

Transfer from Network 3 to Network 3
Rationale:

Materials for Administration

Transfer From:
02431 Network 3
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
02431 Network 3
115 General Education Fund
53305 Instructional Materials (Non-Digital)
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,500

177.

Transfer from Department of JROTC to David G Farragut Career Academy High School
Rationale:

Transfer needed to support cadet transportation. $1000 included for JCLC transportation support.

Transfer From:
05261 Department of JROTC
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113119 Rotc - Hs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
53091 David G Farragut Career Academy High School
115 General Education Fund
54210 Pupil Transportation
113119 Rotc - Hs
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $2,549

178.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John W Cook Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-22801-OHI-3 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22801 John W Cook Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,565

179.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Helen M Hefferan Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-04 To Project# 2020-23711-OBI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23711 Helen M Hefferan Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,569

41

 19-1211-EX1
180.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

CTE Chicago Builds Carpentry Program Supplies

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
53405 Commodities - Supplies
144606 Carpentry
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Amount: $2,585

181.

Transfer from Department of JROTC to William Howard Taft High School
Rationale:

Transfer needed to purchase a unit shirt for 199 cadets.

Transfer From:
05261 Department of JROTC
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113119 Rotc - Hs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46311 William Howard Taft High School
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
113119 Rotc - Hs
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $2,587

182.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Instituto - Justice Lozano
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66921 Instituto - Justice Lozano
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $2,600

183.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Manley Career Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-04 To Project# 2020-53111-OEI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
53111 Manley Career Academy High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,600

184.

Transfer from Robert Lindblom Math & Science Academy HS to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
46511 Robert Lindblom Math & Science Academy HS
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
548024 Track 2 Cs10k: Accelerate Ecs4all Fy19
Amount: $2,626

42

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

 19-1211-EX1
185.

Transfer from Edmond Burke Elementary School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
22411 Edmond Burke Elementary School
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
424064 Sig - Burke (Cohort 5) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $2,639

186.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Joseph Kellman Corporate Community ES
Rationale:

Kellman K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
320020 Other After Schools Programs
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

Transfer To:
23251 Joseph Kellman Corporate Community ES
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

Amount: $2,641

187.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Mildred I Lavizzo Elementary School
Rationale:

Lavizzo K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
320020 Other After Schools Programs
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

Transfer To:
25671 Mildred I Lavizzo Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

Amount: $2,641

188.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to George Leland Elementary School
Rationale:

Leland K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
320020 Other After Schools Programs
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

Transfer To:
26391 George Leland Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

Amount: $2,641

189.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Ronald Brown Elementary Community Academy
Rationale:

Brown R K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24631 Ronald Brown Elementary Community Academy
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,641

43

 19-1211-EX1
190.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Franklin Elementary Fine Arts Center
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-29081-OBI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29081 Franklin Elementary Fine Arts Center
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,650

191.

Transfer from Ella Flagg Young Elementary School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2020-25921-OPI To Award# 2020-488-00-05 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
25921 Ella Flagg Young Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,680

192.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Dodge-Garfield Park
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-04 To Project# 2020-11951-ORR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
11951 Dodge-Garfield Park
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,700

193.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Ombudsman Chicago- West
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
65015 Ombudsman Chicago- West
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $2,704

194.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Kelvyn Park High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-46191-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46191 Kelvyn Park High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,710

44

 19-1211-EX1
195.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Paul Revere Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-25121-OHI-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25121 Paul Revere Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,715

196.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Walter Henri Dyett High School for the Arts
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-10 To Project# 2020-46681-OHI-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009506 Asset Management Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46681 Walter Henri Dyett High School for the Arts
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,720

197.

Transfer from School Safety and Security Office to School Safety and Security Office
Rationale:

Additional supplies for photo IDs (quoted at $2967.50) per LLopez Request

Transfer From:
10610 School Safety and Security Office
210 Workers' & Unemployment Compensation/Tort
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
254605 School Safety Services
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
10610 School Safety and Security Office
210 Workers' & Unemployment Compensation/Tort
53405 Commodities - Supplies
254605 School Safety Services
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,735

198.

Transfer from School Safety and Security Office to School Safety and Security Office
Rationale:

photo IDs quoted at 2967.50 per LLopez' request

Transfer From:
10610 School Safety and Security Office
210 Workers' & Unemployment Compensation/Tort
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
254605 School Safety Services
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
10610 School Safety and Security Office
210 Workers' & Unemployment Compensation/Tort
53405 Commodities - Supplies
254605 School Safety Services
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,735

199.

Transfer from School Safety and Security Office to School Safety and Security Office
Rationale:

Additional $2735 send in error by NArteaga

Transfer From:
10610 School Safety and Security Office
210 Workers' & Unemployment Compensation/Tort
53405 Commodities - Supplies
254605 School Safety Services
000000 Default Value
Amount: $2,735

45

Transfer To:
10610 School Safety and Security Office
210 Workers' & Unemployment Compensation/Tort
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
254605 School Safety Services
000000 Default Value

 19-1211-EX1
200.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Harriet Beecher Stowe Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-04 To Project# 2020-25521-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25521 Harriet Beecher Stowe Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,748

201.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IV programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
358 Title IV
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
440047 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
358 Title IV
53307 Commodities: Software Licenses (Instructional)
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
440047 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Amount: $2,750

202.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to South Shore Intl College Prep High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2020-46631-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46631 South Shore Intl College Prep High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,750

203.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494071 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54130 Services - Non Professional
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494071 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Amount: $2,800

204.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John Spry Elementary Community School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2020-25451-OBI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25451 John Spry Elementary Community School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,825

46

 19-1211-EX1
205.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Lillian R. Nicholson STEM Academy
Rationale:

Nicholson K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
320020 Other After Schools Programs
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

Transfer To:
22181 Lillian R. Nicholson STEM Academy
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

Amount: $2,836

206.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Skinner North
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-22591-ORR-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22591 Skinner North
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,850

207.

Transfer from YCCS- McKinley Lakeside Leadership HS to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66107 YCCS- McKinley Lakeside Leadership HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
212017 Other Govt Fnded Prjts-Guidnce
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $2,850

208.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Neal F Simeon Career Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-53061-OHI-5 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
53061 Neal F Simeon Career Academy High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,850

209.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John J Audubon Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-22091-OCV ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22091 John J Audubon Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,888

47

 19-1211-EX1
210.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to George Armstrong International Studies ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-04 To Project# 2020-22081-OEI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22081 George Armstrong International Studies ES
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,894

211.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to George Washington High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2020-46331-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46331 George Washington High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,900

212.

Transfer from Nutrition Support Services - City Wide to Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
Rationale:

Equipment related expenses.

Transfer From:
12050 Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
312 Lunchroom Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
266203 Technical Support
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12050 Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
312 Lunchroom Fund
55005 Property - Equipment
266203 Technical Support
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,906

213.

Transfer from Computer Science to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54205 Travel Expense
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
548024 Track 2 Cs10k: Accelerate Ecs4all Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $2,920

214.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Charles H Wacker Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-26621-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26621 Charles H Wacker Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,930

48

 19-1211-EX1
215.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Louisa May Alcott College Preparatory ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-22041-OGC-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22041 Louisa May Alcott College Preparatory ES
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,950

216.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Park Manor Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-24841-OBI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24841 Park Manor Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,965

217.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Park Manor Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-24841-OBI-2 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24841 Park Manor Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,965

218.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to George Leland Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-26391-ODR-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26391 George Leland Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,980

219.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Henry R Clissold Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2020-22761-ORR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22761 Henry R Clissold Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,990

49

 19-1211-EX1
220.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Michael Faraday Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-04 To Project# 2020-24371-OGC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24371 Michael Faraday Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $2,995

221.

Transfer from Counseling and Postsecondary Advising to Counseling and Postsecondary Advising
Rationale:

fees for registration, professional developments, seminars, etc.

Transfer From:
10850 Counseling and Postsecondary Advising
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
212013
000000

Counseling & Guidance Services
Default Value

Transfer To:
10850 Counseling and Postsecondary Advising
115 General Education Fund
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
212013 Counseling & Guidance Services
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,000

222.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Arthur R Ashe Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-03 To Project# 2018-26191-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253513 Playlots
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26191 Arthur R Ashe Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253511 Campus Parks
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,000

223.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Ninos Heroes Elementary Academic Center
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-03 To Project# 2018-31101-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253513 Playlots
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
31101 Ninos Heroes Elementary Academic Center
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253511 Campus Parks
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,000

50

 19-1211-EX1
224.

Transfer from Arthur R Ashe Elementary School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2018-26191-NCP To Award# 2019-488-00-03 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
26191 Arthur R Ashe Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253511 Campus Parks
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253513 Playlots
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,000

225.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Arthur R Ashe Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-03 To Project# 2018-26191-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253513 Playlots
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26191 Arthur R Ashe Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253511 Campus Parks
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,000

226.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Fernwood Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-06 To Project# 2020-23201-STK ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23201 Fernwood Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,000

227.

Transfer from Acero Charter Schools - Brighton Park to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66602 Acero Charter Schools - Brighton Park
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
433140 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 10) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $3,000

228.

Transfer from Network 9 to Network 9
Rationale:

transferring funds for conference travel

Transfer From:
02491 Network 9
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
221080 Aio - Improvement Of Instruction
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
02491 Network 9
115 General Education Fund
54205 Travel Expense
221080 Aio - Improvement Of Instruction
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,000

51

 19-1211-EX1
229.

Transfer from Magnet, Gifted and IB Programs to James B McPherson Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for upcoming professional development.

Transfer From:
10845 Magnet, Gifted and IB Programs
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
230010 Administrative Support
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24471 James B McPherson Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
008004 International Gifted Programs

Amount: $3,000

230.

Transfer from Arts to Arts
Rationale:

Transfer to allocate Year 2 funds per Approved Grant Budget from Misc. Contingent Projects line.

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
336 NCLB Title V Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
500026 Project Cultivate Fy20

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
336 NCLB Title V Fund
54205 Travel Expense
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
500026 Project Cultivate Fy20

Amount: $3,000

231.

Transfer from Principal Quality to John H Hamline Elementary School
Rationale:

innovation funds disbursement

Transfer From:
02541 Principal Quality
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
070901 Executive Principals Program

Transfer To:
23511 John H Hamline Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
54205 Travel Expense
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
070901 Executive Principals Program

Amount: $3,000

232.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Associated Talmud Torah Of
Rationale:

Chicago

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494071 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
69530 Associated Talmud Torah Of Chicago
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
228953 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Jewish)
494072 Title Iia - Other Private Supplementary Servc.

Amount: $3,000

233.

Transfer from Arts to Arts
Rationale:

Transfer of funds to increase bucket amount for bucket 467910.

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
54210 Pupil Transportation
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,000

52

 19-1211-EX1
234.

Transfer from Network Support to Network Support
Rationale:

Funds needed to purchase supplies

Transfer From:
11110 Network Support
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
221080 Aio - Improvement Of Instruction
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
11110 Network Support
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
221080 Aio - Improvement Of Instruction
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,000

235.

Transfer from Office of Student Protections & Title IX to Office of Student Protections & Title IX
Rationale:

Internal Transfer requested by DBalfour

Transfer From:
10760 Office of Student Protections & Title IX
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
252801 Investigations - Admin
000312 Student Protections And Title Ix

Transfer To:
10760 Office of Student Protections & Title IX
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
252801 Investigations - Admin
000312 Student Protections And Title Ix

Amount: $3,000

236.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Colman
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-10 To Project# 2020-11955-OMA ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009506 Asset Management Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
11955 Colman
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,025

237.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to James Madison Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-24301-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24301 James Madison Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,025

238.

Transfer from Northside College Preparatory High School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

Sweeping Funds for Fund 124 Reimbursable Funds

Transfer From:
46061 Northside College Preparatory High School
124 School Special Income Fund
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
002239 Internal Accounts Book Transfers
Amount: $3,045

53

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600005 Special Income Fund 124 - Contingency
002239 Internal Accounts Book Transfers

 19-1211-EX1
239.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John F Kennedy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-10 To Project# 2020-46201-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009506 Asset Management Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46201 John F Kennedy High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,045

240.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Myra Bradwell Communications Arts & Sciences ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-22291-OHI-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22291 Myra Bradwell Communications Arts & Sciences ES
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,050

241.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Fort Dearborn Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-23241-OBI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23241 Fort Dearborn Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,051

242.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Independent Schools Of Chicago
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IV programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
358 Title IV
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958
440047

Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Amount: $3,065

54

Transfer To:
70140 Independent Schools Of Chicago
358 Title IV
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
228950 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Independent)
440047 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

 19-1211-EX1
243.

Transfer from Carl Schurz High School to Citywide Student Support and Engagement
Rationale:

Aligning to approved grant budget

Transfer From:
46281 Carl Schurz High School
115 General Education Fund
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000044 Ctu Sustainable Schools Initiative

Transfer To:
10875 Citywide Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
390011 Community School Initiative
000044 Ctu Sustainable Schools Initiative

Amount: $3,096

244.

Transfer from Network 2 to Network 2
Rationale:

Funds are needed to cover benefits for teacher and substitute bucket positions.

Transfer From:
02421 Network 2
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
221080 Aio - Improvement Of Instruction
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
02421 Network 2
115 General Education Fund
51330 Benefits Pointer
221080 Aio - Improvement Of Instruction
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,100

245.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Great Lakes Academy Charter School
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66951 Great Lakes Academy Charter School
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $3,120

246.

Transfer from Network 2 to Network 2
Rationale:

transferring funds to clear negative to open bucket positions

Transfer From:
02421 Network 2
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
221080 Aio - Improvement Of Instruction
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
02421 Network 2
115 General Education Fund
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,140

55

 19-1211-EX1
247.

Transfer from Ira F Aldridge Elementary School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
22641 Ira F Aldridge Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
542133 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity School (Dlos)
Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $3,142

248.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John Harvard Elementary School of Excellence
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-23581-OBI-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23581 John Harvard Elementary School of Excellence
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,195

249.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Charles Sumner Math & Science Community Acad ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-04 To Project# 2020-31221-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
31221 Charles Sumner Math & Science Community Acad ES
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,195

250.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to George W Tilton Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-04 To Project# 2020-25621-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25621 George W Tilton Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,220

56

 19-1211-EX1
251.

Transfer from Carl Schurz High School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2017-46281-UAF To Award# 2017-485-00-09 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
46281 Carl Schurz High School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
320008 Playgrounds And Stadia
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253511 Campus Parks
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,224

252.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Carl Schurz High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-485-00-09 To Project# 2017-46281-UAF ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253511 Campus Parks
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46281 Carl Schurz High School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
320008 Playgrounds And Stadia
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,224

253.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Pathways in Education- Ashburn
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
65018 Pathways in Education- Ashburn
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $3,224

254.

Transfer from Frederick A Douglass Academy High School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
41061 Frederick A Douglass Academy High School
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433134 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 4) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $3,225

255.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Benito Juarez Community Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-427-00-01 To Project# 2019-46421-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46421 Benito Juarez Community Academy High School
427 CIP Series 2016B
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,280

57

 19-1211-EX1
256.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Scott Joplin Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-22281-OEI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22281 Scott Joplin Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,300

257.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Bronzeville Scholastic Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-07 To Project# 2020-55191-ADM ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253539 Developer Services And Permitting
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
55191 Bronzeville Scholastic Academy High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009522 Cip Management
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,300

258.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Wendell Phillips Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-07 To Project# 2020-46261-ADM ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253539 Developer Services And Permitting
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46261 Wendell Phillips Academy High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009522 Cip Management
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,300

259.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Richard J Daley Elementary Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2020-25951-OEI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25951 Richard J Daley Elementary Academy
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,314

260.

Transfer from YCCS-Progressive Leadership Academy to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66613 YCCS-Progressive Leadership Academy
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19
Amount: $3,330

58

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

 19-1211-EX1
261.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Mark Twain Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2020-25661-OEI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25661 Mark Twain Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,335

262.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Perkins Bass Elementary School
Rationale:

Bass K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
320020 Other After Schools Programs
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

Transfer To:
22161 Perkins Bass Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

Amount: $3,374

263.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Leif Ericson Elementary Scholastic Academy
Rationale:

Ericson K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
320020 Other After Schools Programs
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

Transfer To:
29051 Leif Ericson Elementary Scholastic Academy
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

Amount: $3,374

264.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Frank L Gillespie Elementary School
Rationale:

Gillespie K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
320020 Other After Schools Programs
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

Transfer To:
23321 Frank L Gillespie Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

Amount: $3,374

265.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Benjamin E Mays Elementary Academy
Rationale:

Mays K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
320020 Other After Schools Programs
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19
Amount: $3,374

59

Transfer To:
26321 Benjamin E Mays Elementary Academy
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

 19-1211-EX1
266.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Mancel Talcott Elementary School
Rationale:

Talcott K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
320020 Other After Schools Programs
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

Transfer To:
25581 Mancel Talcott Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

Amount: $3,374

267.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Martha Ruggles Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-25181-OHI-3 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25181 Martha Ruggles Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,375

268.

Transfer from West Park Elementary Academy to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
24721 West Park Elementary Academy
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
53305 Instructional Materials (Non-Digital)
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433136 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 6) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $3,398

269.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Paul Laurence Dunbar Career Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2020-53021-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
53021 Paul Laurence Dunbar Career Academy High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,410

270.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to LaSalle Elementary Language Academy
Rationale:

La Salle K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
320020 Other After Schools Programs
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19
Amount: $3,423

60

Transfer To:
29161 LaSalle Elementary Language Academy
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

 19-1211-EX1
271.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Pathways in Education- Avondale
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
65016 Pathways in Education- Avondale
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $3,432

272.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Village Leadership Academy
Rationale:

Transfer funds for approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69032 Village Leadership Academy
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
217662 Iasa-Nonpublic Summer
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Amount: $3,465

273.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Village Leadership Academy
Rationale:

Transfer funds for approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69032 Village Leadership Academy
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
217662 Iasa-Nonpublic Summer
430236 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Independ.

Amount: $3,465

274.

Transfer from Network 11 to Benjamin E Mays Elementary Academy
Rationale:

Transfer funds to provide N11 support for k-2 reading intervention purchase.

Transfer From:
02511 Network 11
124 School Special Income Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
000309 Imc Charitable Foundation Donation

Transfer To:
26321 Benjamin E Mays Elementary Academy
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
000309 Imc Charitable Foundation Donation

Amount: $3,500

275.

Transfer from Network 11 to Perkins Bass Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer funds to provide N11 support for K-2 reading intervention purchase.

Transfer From:
02511 Network 11
124 School Special Income Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
000309 Imc Charitable Foundation Donation

Transfer To:
22161 Perkins Bass Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
000309 Imc Charitable Foundation Donation

Amount: $3,500

61

 19-1211-EX1
276.

Transfer from Network 11 to Richard J Oglesby Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer funds to provide N11 support for K-2 reading intervention purchase.

Transfer From:
02511 Network 11
124 School Special Income Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
000309 Imc Charitable Foundation Donation

Transfer To:
24741 Richard J Oglesby Elementary School
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
000309 Imc Charitable Foundation Donation

Amount: $3,500

277.

Transfer from Network 11 to Dr. Martin L. King Jr Academy of Social Justice
Rationale:

Transfer funds to provide N11 support for K-2 reading intervention purchase.

Transfer From:
02511 Network 11
124 School Special Income Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
000309 Imc Charitable Foundation Donation

Transfer To:
26371 Dr. Martin L. King Jr Academy of Social Justice
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
113090 Grants-Citywide Misc Fndtns
000309 Imc Charitable Foundation Donation

Amount: $3,500

278.

Transfer from Network 13 to Network 13
Rationale:

Opening bucket positions for teachers and SECAs

Transfer From:
02531 Network 13
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
221080 Aio - Improvement Of Instruction
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
02531 Network 13
115 General Education Fund
51330 Benefits Pointer
221080 Aio - Improvement Of Instruction
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,500

279.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

Transfer funds for student transportation

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
322024 Career & Technical Educ. Improvement Grant (Ctei)
Fy20
Amount: $3,500

62

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54210 Pupil Transportation
140008 Cte - Partnership Development
322024 Career & Technical Educ. Improvement Grant (Ctei)
Fy20

 19-1211-EX1
280.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Edward Everett Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-23141-OBI-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23141 Edward Everett Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,569

281.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Emil G Hirsch Metropolitan High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-47031-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
47031 Emil G Hirsch Metropolitan High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,578

282.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John Harvard Elementary School of Excellence
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-23581-OBI-2 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23581 John Harvard Elementary School of Excellence
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,595

283.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Back of the Yards IB HS
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2020-46551-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46551 Back of the Yards IB HS
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,595

284.

Transfer from YCCS-Sullivan House Alternative HS to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66623 YCCS-Sullivan House Alternative HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $3,600

63

 19-1211-EX1
285.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Queen Of All Saints School
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IV programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
358 Title IV
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
440047 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
69253 Queen Of All Saints School
358 Title IV
55005 Property - Equipment
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
440047 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Amount: $3,609

286.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Resurrection High School
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IV programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
358 Title IV
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
440047 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
69398 Resurrection High School
358 Title IV
53405 Commodities - Supplies
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
440047 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Amount: $3,614

287.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Harold Washington Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-24921-ODR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24921 Harold Washington Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,620

288.

Transfer from Counseling and Postsecondary Advising to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds that dropped due to expenditure swap

Transfer From:
10850 Counseling and Postsecondary Advising
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
51100 Teacher Salaries - Regular
212040 Elementary Career Development
322024 Career & Technical Educ. Improvement Grant (Ctei)
Fy20
Amount: $3,627

64

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
322024 Career & Technical Educ. Improvement Grant (Ctei)
Fy20

 19-1211-EX1
289.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Back of the Yards IB HS
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2020-46551-OEI-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46551 Back of the Yards IB HS
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,635

290.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Nicholas Senn High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-01 To Project# 2019-47061-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
47061 Nicholas Senn High School
488 Series 2017H
56302 Capitalized Equipment
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,662

291.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Charles Sumner Math & Science Community Acad ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-04 To Project# 2020-31221-OBI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
31221 Charles Sumner Math & Science Community Acad ES
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,680

292.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Maria Saucedo Elementary Scholastic Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2020-29151-OBI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29151 Maria Saucedo Elementary Scholastic Academy
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,695

293.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Esmond Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2020-23131-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23131 Esmond Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,695

65

 19-1211-EX1
294.

Transfer from Henry H Nash Elementary School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2018-24641-NCP To Award# 2017-485-00-09 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
24641 Henry H Nash Elementary School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253511 Campus Parks
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253511 Campus Parks
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,697

295.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Henry H Nash Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-03 To Project# 2018-24641-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253513 Playlots
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24641 Henry H Nash Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253511 Campus Parks
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,697

296.

Transfer from Joseph Jungman Elementary School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
23961 Joseph Jungman Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
500309 Magnet Schools Assistance Program (Cpsmsap)
Fy18-19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $3,699

297.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Associated Talmud Torah Of
Rationale:

Chicago

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IV programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
358 Title IV
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
440047 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic
Amount: $3,700

66

Transfer To:
69530 Associated Talmud Torah Of Chicago
358 Title IV
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
228953 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Jewish)
440047 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

 19-1211-EX1
298.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Chicago High School for the Arts (ChiArts)
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-04 To Project# 2020-63051-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
63051 Chicago High School for the Arts (ChiArts)
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,725

299.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Mercy Home for Boys
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Neglected Sites

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
334 NCLB Title 1 - Neglected & Delinquent
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125008 Title I - Neglected & Delinquent Programs
430526 Neglected Programs Fy20

Transfer To:
69063 Mercy Home for Boys
334 NCLB Title 1 - Neglected & Delinquent
53307 Commodities: Software Licenses (Instructional)
125008 Title I - Neglected & Delinquent Programs
430526 Neglected Programs Fy20

Amount: $3,750

300.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Amos Alonzo Stagg Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-26521-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26521 Amos Alonzo Stagg Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,795

301.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William J Bogan High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2020-46041-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46041 William J Bogan High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,800

302.

Transfer from Early Childhood Development - City Wide to Laughlin Falconer Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer to purchased technology for PreK classrooms.

Transfer From:
11385 Early Childhood Development - City Wide
362 Early Childhood Development
55005 Property - Equipment
119027 Prek Instruction
376672 State Preschool For All Age 3-5 Fy20
Amount: $3,811

67

Transfer To:
23151 Laughlin Falconer Elementary School
362 Early Childhood Development
55005 Property - Equipment
119027 Prek Instruction
376672 State Preschool For All Age 3-5 Fy20

 19-1211-EX1
303.

Transfer from YCCS- Innovations HS of Arts Integration to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66617 YCCS- Innovations HS of Arts Integration
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $3,836

304.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Bais Yaakov High School Of
Rationale:

Chicago

Transfer funds for approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69553 Bais Yaakov High School Of
Chicago
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370003 Nonpublic Fine Arts
430239 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Jewish

Amount: $3,840

305.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William J Bogan High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-10 To Project# 2020-46041-OGC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009506 Asset Management Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46041 William J Bogan High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,850

306.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Arnold Mireles Elementary Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-25331-OHI-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25331 Arnold Mireles Elementary Academy
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,865

307.

Transfer from Computer Science to Computer Science
Rationale:

Transferring additional funds for benefits needed to open requested Substitute Bucket

Transfer From:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
210052 Computer Science For All Fy19
Amount: $3,870

68

Transfer To:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
210052 Computer Science For All Fy19

 19-1211-EX1
308.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John Harvard Elementary School of Excellence
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-23581-OHI-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23581 John Harvard Elementary School of Excellence
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,895

309.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Richard J Oglesby Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-24741-OHI-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24741 Richard J Oglesby Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,895

310.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Louis Nettelhorst Elementary School
Rationale:

Nettelhorst K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
320020 Other After Schools Programs
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

Transfer To:
24661 Louis Nettelhorst Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

Amount: $3,912

311.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Frederick A Douglass Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-41061-OHI-2 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
41061 Frederick A Douglass Academy High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,935

312.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Richard Edwards Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-10 To Project# 2020-23081-OHI-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009506 Asset Management Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23081 Richard Edwards Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,950

69

 19-1211-EX1
313.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Ella Flagg Young Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-25921-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25921 Ella Flagg Young Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,978

314.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Arthur E Canty Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-04 To Project# 2020-22541-OMA ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22541 Arthur E Canty Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,980

315.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Pulaski International School of Chicago
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-31211-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
31211 Pulaski International School of Chicago
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,980

316.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Johann W von Goethe Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-23341-OHI-3 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23341 Johann W von Goethe Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,985

317.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Washington D Smyser Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-04 To Project# 2020-25401-OGC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25401 Washington D Smyser Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $3,996

70

 19-1211-EX1
318.

Transfer from Computer Science to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
53405 Commodities - Supplies
221117 Computer Education
500012 Chicago Alliance For Equity In Computer Science
(Cafe-Cs) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $4,000

319.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

Transfer funds for seminar and conference fees

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
119035
474567

Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Amount: $4,000

320.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Marie Sklodowska Curie Metropolitan High School
Rationale:

to provide supplies to Curie's Teaching program

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Transfer To:
53101 Marie Sklodowska Curie Metropolitan High School
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
53405 Commodities - Supplies
140005 Cte - Childcare Worker
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Amount: $4,000

321.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Marie Sklodowska Curie Metropolitan High School
Rationale:

to provide workbooks to Curie's Teaching program

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20
Amount: $4,000

71

Transfer To:
53101 Marie Sklodowska Curie Metropolitan High School
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
53305 Instructional Materials (Non-Digital)
140005 Cte - Childcare Worker
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

 19-1211-EX1
322.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

Transfer funds for student transportation

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54210 Pupil Transportation
140008 Cte - Partnership Development
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Amount: $4,000

323.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to L.E.A.R.N. - South Chicago Campus
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66563 L.E.A.R.N. - South Chicago Campus
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $4,056

324.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Southside Occupational Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-436-00-02 To Project# 2018-49031-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000041 School Funded Projects (Capital)

Transfer To:
49031 Southside Occupational Academy High School
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000041 School Funded Projects (Capital)

Amount: $4,069

325.

Transfer from Claremont Academy Elementary School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
31301 Claremont Academy Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290004 General Salary
S Bkt
500309 Magnet Schools Assistance Program (Cpsmsap)
Fy18-19
Amount: $4,074

72

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

 19-1211-EX1
326.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Johann W von Goethe Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-23341-OGC-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23341 Johann W von Goethe Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,100

327.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Charles Gates Dawes Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-02 To Project# 2019-22901-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22901 Charles Gates Dawes Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,104

328.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Austin College and Career Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-46621-OLT ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46621 Austin College and Career Academy High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,120

329.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Ole A Thorp Elementary Scholastic Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2019-25601-OFA ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29301 Ole A Thorp Elementary Scholastic Academy
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,120

330.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to James N Thorp Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2019-25601-OFA ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25601 James N Thorp Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,120

73

 19-1211-EX1
331.

Transfer from Nutrition Support Services - City Wide to Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
Rationale:

Lunchroom meal expenses.

Transfer From:
12050 Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
312 Lunchroom Fund
55010 Property - Furniture
256009 Food Service
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12050 Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
312 Lunchroom Fund
54560 Delivery Service
256009 Food Service
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,135

332.

Transfer from Arts to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
336 NCLB Title V Fund
53205 Commodities - Supplied Food
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
500025 Project Cultivate Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
336 NCLB Title V Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $4,154

333.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Phillip Murray Elementary Language Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2020-29221-OHI-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29221 Phillip Murray Elementary Language Academy
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,185

334.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Richard J Oglesby Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-24741-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24741 Richard J Oglesby Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,195

335.

Transfer from Department of Personalized Learning to Crown Community Academy of Fine Arts Center ES
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for EdTech Licenses.

Transfer From:
10825 Department of Personalized Learning
358 Title IV
53307 Commodities: Software Licenses (Instructional)
119070 Personalized Learning Instruction
440046 Title Iv, Part A
Amount: $4,200

74

Transfer To:
31041 Crown Community Academy of Fine Arts Center ES
358 Title IV
53307 Commodities: Software Licenses (Instructional)
119070 Personalized Learning Instruction
440046 Title Iv, Part A

 19-1211-EX1
336.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Percy L Julian High School
Rationale:

to provide supplies to Julian's CTE Allied Health Program

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Transfer To:
46401 Percy L Julian High School
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
53405 Commodities - Supplies
148001 Allied Health
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Amount: $4,200

337.

Transfer from Early Childhood Development - City Wide to South Loop Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for second allocation for Tuition Based Pre-K.

Transfer From:
11385 Early Childhood Development - City Wide
117 Tuition Based Program
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119027 Prek Instruction
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23751 South Loop Elementary School
117 Tuition Based Program
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119027 Prek Instruction
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,250

338.

Transfer from Computer Science to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
548024 Track 2 Cs10k: Accelerate Ecs4all Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $4,256

339.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Enrico Tonti Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-25631-OEI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25631 Enrico Tonti Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,257

340.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to TEAM Englewood Community Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-49161-OHI-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
49161 TEAM Englewood Community Academy High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,275

75

 19-1211-EX1
341.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William H Prescott Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-25021-OBI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25021 William H Prescott Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,290

342.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Michele Clark Academic Prep Magnet High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-41051-OPI-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
41051 Michele Clark Academic Prep Magnet High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,300

343.

Transfer from Ira F Aldridge Elementary School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
22641 Ira F Aldridge Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
542133 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity School (Dlos)
Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $4,376

344.

Transfer from Joseph Jungman Elementary School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
23961 Joseph Jungman Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290004 General Salary
S Bkt
500309 Magnet Schools Assistance Program (Cpsmsap)
Fy18-19
Amount: $4,467

76

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

 19-1211-EX1
345.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John F Eberhart Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2020-23041-ODR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23041 John F Eberhart Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,469

346.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Nathan S Davis Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-22891-OBI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22891 Nathan S Davis Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,469

347.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Bowen High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-46491-OHI-2 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46491 Bowen High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,475

348.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Harriet E Sayre Elementary Language Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-29271-OPI-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29271 Harriet E Sayre Elementary Language Academy
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,480

349.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Wolfgang A Mozart Elementary School
Rationale:

Mozart K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
320020 Other After Schools Programs
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19
Amount: $4,491

77

Transfer To:
24611 Wolfgang A Mozart Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

 19-1211-EX1
350.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Ralph H Metcalfe Elementary Community Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2020-31061-OHI-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
31061 Ralph H Metcalfe Elementary Community Academy
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,495

351.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Edward A Bouchet Math & Science Academy ES
Rationale:

Bouchet K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
320020 Other After Schools Programs
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

Transfer To:
22371 Edward A Bouchet Math & Science Academy ES
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

Amount: $4,499

352.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Lorenz Brentano Math & Science Academy ES
Rationale:

Brentano K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
320020 Other After Schools Programs
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

Transfer To:
22311 Lorenz Brentano Math & Science Academy ES
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

Amount: $4,499

353.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Jose De Diego Elementary Community Academy
Rationale:

De Diego K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
320020 Other After Schools Programs
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

Transfer To:
31261 Jose De Diego Elementary Community Academy
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

Amount: $4,499

354.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Charles N Holden Elementary School
Rationale:

Holden K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
320020 Other After Schools Programs
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19
Amount: $4,499

78

Transfer To:
23821 Charles N Holden Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

 19-1211-EX1
355.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to New Field Elementary School
Rationale:

New Field K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
320020 Other After Schools Programs
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

Transfer To:
22071 New Field Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

Amount: $4,499

356.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Fairfield Elementary Academy
Rationale:

Fairfield K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26701 Fairfield Elementary Academy
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $4,499

357.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to James Wadsworth Elementary School
Rationale:

Wadsworth K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25711 James Wadsworth Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $4,499

358.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Frazier Prospective IB Magnet ES
Rationale:

Frazier K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 50%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29411 Frazier Prospective IB Magnet ES
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $4,499

359.

Transfer from Early Childhood Development - City Wide to Mark Skinner Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for second allocation for Tuition Based Pre-K.

Transfer From:
11385 Early Childhood Development - City Wide
117 Tuition Based Program
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119027 Prek Instruction
000000 Default Value
Amount: $4,500

79

Transfer To:
29281 Mark Skinner Elementary School
117 Tuition Based Program
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119027 Prek Instruction
000000 Default Value

 19-1211-EX1
360.

Transfer from YCCS-Austin Career Education Center HS to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66611 YCCS-Austin Career Education Center HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
211001 Attendance & Social Work
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $4,500

361.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Thomas Kelly High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-02 To Project# 2019-46181-SCI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46181 Thomas Kelly High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,500

362.

Transfer from Nutrition Support Services - City Wide to Information & Technology Services
Rationale:

Transfer funds to cover cost of AT&T data plans for 7 new iPads purchased for the NSS Operations team.

Transfer From:
12050 Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
312 Lunchroom Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
266203 Technical Support
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12510 Information & Technology Services
312 Lunchroom Fund
54405 Services - Telephone & Telegraph
254501 Telecom (Non E-Rate)
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,550

363.

Transfer from William H Brown Elementary School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
22351 William H Brown Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290004 General Salary
S Bkt
500309 Magnet Schools Assistance Program (Cpsmsap)
Fy18-19
Amount: $4,565

80

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

 19-1211-EX1
364.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Ombudsman Chicago- Northwest
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
65013 Ombudsman Chicago- Northwest
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $4,576

365.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Frazier Prospective IB Magnet ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-04 To Project# 2020-29411-OHI-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29411 Frazier Prospective IB Magnet ES
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,585

366.

Transfer from YCCS- Academy of Scholastic Achievement HS to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66106 YCCS- Academy of Scholastic Achievement HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
211001 Attendance & Social Work
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $4,652

367.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Chicago Virtual Charter School
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66481 Chicago Virtual Charter School
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $4,680

368.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to St Bruno School
Rationale:

Transfer funds for approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic
Amount: $4,700

81

Transfer To:
69064 St Bruno School
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370003 Nonpublic Fine Arts
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

 19-1211-EX1
369.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Washington D Smyser Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-04 To Project# 2020-25401-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25401 Washington D Smyser Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,725

370.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Ombudsman Chicago- South
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
65014 Ombudsman Chicago- South
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $4,784

371.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Arnold Mireles Elementary Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-25331-OBI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25331 Arnold Mireles Elementary Academy
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,789

372.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Dodge Renaissance Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-04 To Project# 2019-22981-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22981 Dodge Renaissance Academy
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,800

373.

Transfer from Dodge Renaissance Academy to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2019-22981-BAS To Award# 2019-488-00-04 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
22981 Dodge Renaissance Academy
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,800

82

 19-1211-EX1
374.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Dodge Renaissance Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-04 To Project# 2019-22981-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22981 Dodge Renaissance Academy
488 Series 2017H
56304 Capitalized Software
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,800

375.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494071 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494071 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Amount: $4,800

376.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Daniel J Corkery Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-10 To Project# 2020-22851-OPI-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009506 Asset Management Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22851 Daniel J Corkery Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,840

377.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Daniel Webster Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-04 To Project# 2020-25791-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25791 Daniel Webster Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,889

378.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Arthur R Ashe Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-26191-OBI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26191 Arthur R Ashe Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,895

83

 19-1211-EX1
379.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Richard J Oglesby Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-24741-OBI-3 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24741 Richard J Oglesby Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,895

380.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John M Harlan Community Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-51021-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
51021 John M Harlan Community Academy High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,895

381.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William Rainey Harper High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-46151-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46151 William Rainey Harper High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,920

382.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Harriet E Sayre Elementary Language Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-29271-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29271 Harriet E Sayre Elementary Language Academy
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,925

383.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Lake View High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-01 To Project# 2020-46211-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46211 Lake View High School
488 Series 2017H
56302 Capitalized Equipment
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,943

84

 19-1211-EX1
384.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Harold Washington Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-24921-OPI-2 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24921 Harold Washington Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,955

385.

Transfer from Harriet Beecher Stowe Elementary School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
25521 Harriet Beecher Stowe Elementary School
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
433136 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 6) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $4,956

386.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Amelia Earhart Options for Knowledge ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-26441-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26441 Amelia Earhart Options for Knowledge ES
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,975

387.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William B Ogden Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-04 To Project# 2020-24731-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24731 William B Ogden Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,978

388.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to James N Thorp Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-10 To Project# 2020-25601-ORR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009506 Asset Management Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25601 James N Thorp Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,990

85

 19-1211-EX1
389.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Josefa Ortiz De Dominguez Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-10 To Project# 2020-23411-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009506 Asset Management Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23411 Josefa Ortiz De Dominguez Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $4,995

390.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Real Estate
Rationale:

FY20 Cell Tower - Replacement Fee - AT&T $5,000 Pulaski. 10.31.2019 ACH

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600005 Special Income Fund 124 - Contingency
150900 Grants - Supplemental

Transfer To:
11910 Real Estate
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253201 Cell Tower Installation Program
000388 Cellular Revenue

Amount: $5,000

391.

Transfer from Early Childhood Development - City Wide to Disney II Magnet School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for second allocation for Tuition Based Pre-K.

Transfer From:
11385 Early Childhood Development - City Wide
117 Tuition Based Program
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119027 Prek Instruction
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26921 Disney II Magnet School
117 Tuition Based Program
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119027 Prek Instruction
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,000

392.

Transfer from Early Childhood Development - City Wide to Alexander Hamilton Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for second allocation for Tuition Based Pre-K.

Transfer From:
11385 Early Childhood Development - City Wide
117 Tuition Based Program
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119027 Prek Instruction
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23501 Alexander Hamilton Elementary School
117 Tuition Based Program
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119027 Prek Instruction
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,000

393.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Chicago Vocational Career Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-12 To Project# 2020-53011-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253515 Energy
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
53011 Chicago Vocational Career Academy High School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,000

86

 19-1211-EX1
394.

Transfer from Arts to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
336 NCLB Title V Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
500025 Project Cultivate Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
336 NCLB Title V Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $5,000

395.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Kelvyn Park High School
Rationale:

Supplies for Digital Media program per Letita McGee

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Transfer To:
46191 Kelvyn Park High School
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
53405 Commodities - Supplies
147601 Graphic Communications/Graphic Design
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Amount: $5,000

396.

Transfer from Talent Office - City Wide to John W Cook Elementary School
Rationale:

Per Michael Sitkowski. Please transfer funds for teacher residency bucket.

Transfer From:
11070 Talent Office - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
264207 Teacher Sourcing & Recruitment
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22801 John W Cook Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
221066 Teaching Residency & Internship
000575 Student Based Budgeting

Amount: $5,000

397.

Transfer from Talent Office - City Wide to Gage Park High School
Rationale:

Per Michael Sitkowski. Please transfer funds for teacher residency bucket.

Transfer From:
11070 Talent Office - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
264207 Teacher Sourcing & Recruitment
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46141 Gage Park High School
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
221066 Teaching Residency & Internship
000575 Student Based Budgeting

Amount: $5,000

398.

Transfer from Talent Office - City Wide to Mount Vernon Elementary School
Rationale:

Michael Sitkowski. Please transfer funds for teacher residency bucket.

Transfer From:
11070 Talent Office - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
264207 Teacher Sourcing & Recruitment
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24601 Mount Vernon Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
221066 Teaching Residency & Internship
000576 Supplemental Aid

Amount: $5,000

87

 19-1211-EX1
399.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Sarah E. Goode STEM Academy
Rationale:

Student Transportation for STEM program

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
53305 Instructional Materials (Non-Digital)
125023 Stem - Extended Student Learning
008011 Stem Programs

Transfer To:
46611 Sarah E. Goode STEM Academy
115 General Education Fund
54210 Pupil Transportation
125023 Stem - Extended Student Learning
008011 Stem Programs

Amount: $5,000

400.

Transfer from Sarah E. Goode STEM Academy to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

Correcting erroneous transfer that was initially Student Transportation for STEM program

Transfer From:
46611 Sarah E. Goode STEM Academy
115 General Education Fund
54210 Pupil Transportation
125023 Stem - Extended Student Learning
008011 Stem Programs

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
53305 Instructional Materials (Non-Digital)
125023 Stem - Extended Student Learning
008011 Stem Programs

Amount: $5,000

401.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Sarah E. Goode STEM Academy
Rationale:

Student Transportation for STEM program per Sabron Russ

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
53305 Instructional Materials (Non-Digital)
125023 Stem - Extended Student Learning
008011 Stem Programs

Transfer To:
46611 Sarah E. Goode STEM Academy
115 General Education Fund
54210 Pupil Transportation
125023 Stem - Extended Student Learning
008011 Stem Programs

Amount: $5,000

402.

Transfer from Network 4 to Network 4
Rationale:

Opening bucket position

Transfer From:
02441 Network 4
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
221080 Aio - Improvement Of Instruction
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
02441 Network 4
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,000

403.

Transfer from Nutrition Support Services - City Wide to Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
Rationale:

Transfer funds to order Serve Safe licenses for FY20.

Transfer From:
12050 Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
312 Lunchroom Fund
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12050 Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
312 Lunchroom Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
256009 Food Service
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,001

88

 19-1211-EX1
404.

Transfer from YCCS- Academy of Scholastic Achievement HS to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66106 YCCS- Academy of Scholastic Achievement HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $5,048

405.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IV programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
358 Title IV
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
440047 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
358 Title IV
53405 Commodities - Supplies
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
440047 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Amount: $5,134

406.

Transfer from Department of JROTC to David G Farragut Career Academy High School
Rationale:

Transfer needed to support the purchase of supplies for the JROTC program.

Transfer From:
05261 Department of JROTC
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
113119 Rotc - Hs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
53091 David G Farragut Career Academy High School
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
113119 Rotc - Hs
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $5,175

407.

Transfer from Early Childhood Development - City Wide to John J Audubon Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for second allocation for Tuition Based Pre-K.

Transfer From:
11385 Early Childhood Development - City Wide
117 Tuition Based Program
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119027 Prek Instruction
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22091 John J Audubon Elementary School
117 Tuition Based Program
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119027 Prek Instruction
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,250

408.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Frank W Gunsaulus Elementary Scholastic Academy
Rationale:

Gunsaulus K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
320020 Other After Schools Programs
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19
Amount: $5,281

89

Transfer To:
29121 Frank W Gunsaulus Elementary Scholastic Academy
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
100106 Out-Of-School-Time Iga Fy19

 19-1211-EX1
409.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Andrew Carnegie Elementary School
Rationale:

Carnegie K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22551 Andrew Carnegie Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,281

410.

Transfer from Wendell Phillips Academy High School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

total to Phillips should be $13,000

Transfer From:
46261 Wendell Phillips Academy High School
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
005063 Fy19 School Actions - Englewood

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119004 Other General Charges
005063 Fy19 School Actions - Englewood

Amount: $5,300

411.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Kenwood Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-10 To Project# 2020-46361-OHI-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009506 Asset Management Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46361 Kenwood Academy High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,320

412.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to St Paul Lutheran School
Rationale:

Transfer funds for approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69332 St Paul Lutheran School
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370003 Nonpublic Fine Arts
430238 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Lutheran

Amount: $5,340

413.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Alice L Barnard Computer Math & Science Ctr ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2020-22131-OEI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22131 Alice L Barnard Computer Math & Science Ctr ES
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,480

90

 19-1211-EX1
414.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Rueben Salazar Elementary Bilingual Center
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-13 To Project# 2020-30101-NPL ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
320008 Playgrounds And Stadia
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
30101 Rueben Salazar Elementary Bilingual Center
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
320008 Playgrounds And Stadia
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,482

415.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2019-12150-ADM To Award# 2019-437-00-07 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
009522 Cip Management
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,500

416.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Burnside Elementary Scholastic Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-29021-ODR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29021 Burnside Elementary Scholastic Academy
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,500

417.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Marie Sklodowska Curie Metropolitan High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-02 To Project# 2019-53101-SCI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
53101 Marie Sklodowska Curie Metropolitan High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,500

418.

Transfer from Citywide Student Support and Engagement to Citywide Student Support and Engagement
Rationale:

Transfer in order to open sub bucket and clear negative

Transfer From:
10875 Citywide Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
390011 Community School Initiative
000044 Ctu Sustainable Schools Initiative
Amount: $5,588

91

Transfer To:
10875 Citywide Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000044 Ctu Sustainable Schools Initiative

 19-1211-EX1
419.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Maria Saucedo Elementary Scholastic Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-10 To Project# 2020-29151-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009506 Asset Management Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29151 Maria Saucedo Elementary Scholastic Academy
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,593

420.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Helen Peirce International Studies ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-04 To Project# 2020-24891-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24891 Helen Peirce International Studies ES
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,606

421.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Wendell Phillips Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2020-46261-OHI-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46261 Wendell Phillips Academy High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,660

422.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Gurdon S Hubbard High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-07 To Project# 2020-46341-RPT ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253539 Developer Services And Permitting
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46341 Gurdon S Hubbard High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,700

423.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Helen Peirce International Studies ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-04 To Project# 2020-24891-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24891 Helen Peirce International Studies ES
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,745

92

 19-1211-EX1
424.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Ashburn Community Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-11 To Project# 2020-32081-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
32081 Ashburn Community Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253526 Interior Renovation
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,751

425.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Carroll-Rosenwald Specialty Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-11 To Project# 2020-22571-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22571 Carroll-Rosenwald Specialty Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,751

426.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Charles Gates Dawes Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-11 To Project# 2020-22901-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22901 Charles Gates Dawes Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,751

427.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Lionel Hampton Fine & Performing Arts ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-11 To Project# 2020-32021-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
32021 Lionel Hampton Fine & Performing Arts ES
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,751

428.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Scott Joplin Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-22281-OPI-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22281 Scott Joplin Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,789

93

 19-1211-EX1
429.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Maria Saucedo Elementary Scholastic Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2020-29151-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29151 Maria Saucedo Elementary Scholastic Academy
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,790

430.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Benjamin E Mays Elementary Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-26321-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26321 Benjamin E Mays Elementary Academy
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,800

431.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Richard J Oglesby Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-24741-ODR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24741 Richard J Oglesby Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,805

432.

Transfer from YCCS-CCA Academy HS to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66612 YCCS-CCA Academy HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
433140 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 10) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $5,823

433.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to CICS - Basil
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition
Amount: $5,824

94

Transfer To:
66231 CICS - Basil
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

 19-1211-EX1
434.

Transfer from Arts to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
336 NCLB Title V Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
500025 Project Cultivate Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
336 NCLB Title V Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $5,827

435.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William T Sherman Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-25341-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25341 William T Sherman Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,880

436.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Mary Gage Peterson Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-04 To Project# 2020-24941-OEI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24941 Mary Gage Peterson Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,880

437.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John Marshall Metropolitan High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-02 To Project# 2019-47041-SCI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
47041 John Marshall Metropolitan High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,880

438.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Michael Faraday Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-04 To Project# 2020-24371-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24371 Michael Faraday Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,889

95

 19-1211-EX1
439.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John F Eberhart Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-10 To Project# 2020-23041-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009506 Asset Management Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23041 John F Eberhart Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,890

440.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Rueben Salazar Elementary Bilingual Center
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-30101-OII ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
30101 Rueben Salazar Elementary Bilingual Center
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $5,985

441.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Cheder Lubavitch Hebrew School
Rationale:

Transfer funds for approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69099 Cheder Lubavitch Hebrew School
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54130 Services - Non Professional
300013 Non-Public Professional Development
430239 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Jewish

Amount: $6,000

442.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds for approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
55005 Property - Equipment
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Amount: $6,000

443.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Carl Schurz High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-485-00-09 To Project# 2017-46281-UAF ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253511 Campus Parks
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46281 Carl Schurz High School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
320008 Playgrounds And Stadia
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,000

96

 19-1211-EX1
444.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Pathways in Education- Brighton Park
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66801 Pathways in Education- Brighton Park
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $6,136

445.

Transfer from Network 4 to Network 4
Rationale:

Budget transfer for flights and lodging for Chief Klee and 2 Instructional Support leaders to attend the Standards Institute in Florida.

Transfer From:
02441 Network 4
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
221080 Aio - Improvement Of Instruction
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
02441 Network 4
115 General Education Fund
54205 Travel Expense
221080 Aio - Improvement Of Instruction
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,151

446.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Sharon Christa McAuliffe Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-11 To Project# 2020-23551-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23551 Sharon Christa McAuliffe Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,184

447.

Transfer from YCCS- Academy of Scholastic Achievement HS to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66106 YCCS- Academy of Scholastic Achievement HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
212017 Other Govt Fnded Prjts-Guidnce
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $6,229

448.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Durkin Park Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-07 To Project# 2020-26831-TUS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253539 Developer Services And Permitting
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26831 Durkin Park Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,250

97

 19-1211-EX1
449.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Noble - Muchin College Prep
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66573 Noble - Muchin College Prep
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $6,448

450.

Transfer from Computer Science to Computer Science
Rationale:

Correcting misplaced funds back to miscellaneous line

Transfer From:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51330 Benefits Pointer
221117 Computer Education
210052 Computer Science For All Fy19

Transfer To:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
221117 Computer Education
210052 Computer Science For All Fy19

Amount: $6,500

451.

Transfer from Office of Student Health & Wellness to Office of Student Health & Wellness
Rationale:

Transfer for hotspots per O. Marroquin.

Transfer From:
14050 Office of Student Health & Wellness
115 General Education Fund
54520 Services - Printing
213011 Health Services
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
14050 Office of Student Health & Wellness
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
213011 Health Services
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,500

452.

Transfer from Office of Student Health & Wellness to Information & Technology Services
Rationale:

10 hotspot devices (10 x $650). Per O. Marroquin.

Transfer From:
14050 Office of Student Health & Wellness
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
213011 Health Services
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12510 Information & Technology Services
115 General Education Fund
54405 Services - Telephone & Telegraph
254501 Telecom (Non E-Rate)
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,500

453.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Scott Joplin Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-22281-OGC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22281 Scott Joplin Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,500

98

 19-1211-EX1
454.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Thomas Drummond Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-07 To Project# 2020-23021-SIT ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253539 Developer Services And Permitting
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23021 Thomas Drummond Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,551

455.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Luther Burbank Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-22401-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22401 Luther Burbank Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,580

456.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Independent Schools Of Chicago
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494071 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
70140 Independent Schools Of Chicago
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54205 Travel Expense
228950 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Independent)
494072 Title Iia - Other Private Supplementary Servc.

Amount: $6,609

457.

Transfer from Counseling and Postsecondary Advising to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds that dropped due to expenditure swap

Transfer From:
10850 Counseling and Postsecondary Advising
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
52100 Career Service Salaries - Regular
212013 Counseling & Guidance Services
322024 Career & Technical Educ. Improvement Grant (Ctei)
Fy20
Amount: $6,664

99

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
322024 Career & Technical Educ. Improvement Grant (Ctei)
Fy20

 19-1211-EX1
458.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Harold Washington Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2018-488-00-10 To Project# 2019-24921-MCR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24921 Harold Washington Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,670

459.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Independent Schools Of Chicago
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IV programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
358 Title IV
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
440047 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
70140 Independent Schools Of Chicago
358 Title IV
54205 Travel Expense
228950 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Independent)
440047 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Amount: $6,723

460.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Josefa Ortiz De Dominguez Elementary School
Rationale:

Ortiz De Dominguez K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 50%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23411 Josefa Ortiz De Dominguez Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $6,748

461.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to William H Prescott Elementary School
Rationale:

Prescott K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 50%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25021 William H Prescott Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $6,748

462.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Noble - Noble College Prep
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition
Amount: $6,760

100

Transfer To:
66141 Noble - Noble College Prep
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

 19-1211-EX1
463.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Edmond Burke Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-10 To Project# 2020-22411-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009506 Asset Management Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22411 Edmond Burke Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,795

464.

Transfer from Teaching and Learning Office to Teaching and Learning Office
Rationale:

Transfer to cover the cost of equipment for programs

Transfer From:
10810 Teaching and Learning Office
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
150010 Science Fair
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
10810 Teaching and Learning Office
115 General Education Fund
55005 Property - Equipment
150013 Chess Program
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,800

465.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Mary Gage Peterson Elementary School
Rationale:

Peterson R K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24941 Mary Gage Peterson Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,846

466.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Daniel J Corkery Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2020-22851-OEI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22851 Daniel J Corkery Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,850

467.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Fort Dearborn Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-23241-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23241 Fort Dearborn Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,895

101

 19-1211-EX1
468.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Edward Beasley Elementary Magnet Academic Center
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-07 To Project# 2020-29321-SIT ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253539 Developer Services And Permitting
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29321 Edward Beasley Elementary Magnet Academic Center
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
009526 All Other
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,902

469.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

2019 - Certification Pre-Tests (Job Ready/Pathway)

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
53304 Instructional Materials (Digital)
223013 Assessments/Standards
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Amount: $6,948

470.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

2019 - Certification Pre-Tests (Job Ready/Pathway)

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
53304 Instructional Materials (Digital)
223013 Assessments/Standards
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Amount: $6,948

471.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Washington Irving Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-13 To Project# 2020-24881-NPL ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
320008 Playgrounds And Stadia
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24881 Washington Irving Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
320008 Playgrounds And Stadia
000000 Default Value

Amount: $6,992

102

 19-1211-EX1
472.

Transfer from Computer Science to Computer Science
Rationale:

Transferring funds to open two requested buckets, teacher extended day and stipend per Yolanda Mitchell

Transfer From:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
210052 Computer Science For All Fy19

Transfer To:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
210052 Computer Science For All Fy19

Amount: $7,000

473.

Transfer from Sports Administration and Facilities Management - City Wide to Sports Administration and Facilities Management - City
Wide
Rationale:

CEC sponsorship

Transfer From:
13737 Sports Administration and Facilities Management - City
Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
150005 High School Sports
000867 Sports Administration Revenue

Transfer To:
13737 Sports Administration and Facilities Management - City
Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
150005 High School Sports
000867 Sports Administration Revenue

Amount: $7,000

474.

Transfer from YCCS-Progressive Leadership Academy to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66613 YCCS-Progressive Leadership Academy
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
212017 Other Govt Fnded Prjts-Guidnce
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $7,050

475.

Transfer from Social Science & Civic Engagement to Social Science & Civic Engagement
Rationale:

Transfer of funds to open HS School Social Science bucket

Transfer From:
10813 Social Science & Civic Engagement
115 General Education Fund
53305 Instructional Materials (Non-Digital)
390003 Service Learning
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
10813 Social Science & Civic Engagement
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $7,100

103

 19-1211-EX1
476.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Hanna Sachs Bias Yaakov
Rationale:

High School Of Chicago

Transfer funds for approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332
57915
370004
430235

NCLB Title I Regular Fund
Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69141 Hanna Sachs Bias Yaakov
High School Of
Chicago
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54130 Services - Non Professional
300013 Non-Public Professional Development
430239 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Jewish

Amount: $7,125

477.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Thomas Kelly High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-46181-OHI-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46181 Thomas Kelly High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $7,170

478.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Augustus Tolton Catholic Academy
Rationale:

Transfer funds for approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69080 Augustus Tolton Catholic Academy
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370003 Nonpublic Fine Arts
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Amount: $7,209

479.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Christian Fenger Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-10 To Project# 2020-46111-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009506 Asset Management Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46111 Christian Fenger Academy High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $7,250

104

 19-1211-EX1
480.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Lake View High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-01 To Project# 2020-46211-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46211 Lake View High School
488 Series 2017H
56302 Capitalized Equipment
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $7,270

481.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Pulaski International School of Chicago
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-485-00-11 To Project# 2020-31211-STK ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009555 Chimney
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
31211 Pulaski International School of Chicago
485 CIT PayGo Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Amount: $7,274

482.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Noble - Golder College Prep
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66145 Noble - Golder College Prep
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $7,280

483.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to St Ailbe
Rationale:

Transfer funds for approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic
Amount: $7,298

105

Transfer To:
69029 St Ailbe
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370003 Nonpublic Fine Arts
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

 19-1211-EX1
484.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

CTE Culinary Arts Equipment Cleaning

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
322024 Career & Technical Educ. Improvement Grant (Ctei)
Fy20

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
56105 Services - Repair Contracts
140505 Culinary Arts
322024 Career & Technical Educ. Improvement Grant (Ctei)
Fy20

Amount: $7,300

485.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Noble - Rauner College Prep
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66143 Noble - Rauner College Prep
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $7,384

486.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to EPIC Academy Charter High School
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
63081 EPIC Academy Charter High School
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $7,384

487.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Robert L Grimes Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-17 To Project# 2018-23461-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009551 Masonary/Windows
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23461 Robert L Grimes Elementary School
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $7,387

106

 19-1211-EX1
488.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William B Ogden Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-04 To Project# 2020-24731-OEL ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24731 William B Ogden Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $7,477

489.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Peace and Education Coalition High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-10 To Project# 2020-67021-OBI-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009506 Asset Management Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
67021 Peace and Education Coalition High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $7,500

490.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Real Estate
Rationale:

FY20 Cell Tower - Admin Fee. T-mobile $7,500 Mary Lyon. 11.18.2019 ACH

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600005 Special Income Fund 124 - Contingency
150900 Grants - Supplemental

Transfer To:
11910 Real Estate
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253201 Cell Tower Installation Program
000388 Cellular Revenue

Amount: $7,500

491.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Christian Affiliate Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds for approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69237 Christian Affiliate Schools
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
390014 Nonpublic Sup Counseling Services
430237 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Christian

Amount: $7,515

492.

Transfer from Stephen Decatur Classical Elementary School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2020-29031-OHI To Award# 2020-488-00-04 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
29031 Stephen Decatur Classical Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value
Amount: $7,550

107

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

 19-1211-EX1
493.

Transfer from YCCS-Austin Career Education Center HS to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66611 YCCS-Austin Career Education Center HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $7,678

494.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Camelot Excel - Englewood HS
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-427-00-01 To Project# 2020-63142-ROF ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
63142 Camelot Excel - Englewood HS
427 CIP Series 2016B
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $7,718

495.

Transfer from Citywide Student Support and Engagement to Citywide Student Support and Engagement
Rationale:

Rental Space

Transfer From:
10875 Citywide Student Support and Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290005 Support Services
376807 Truant Alternative Optional Education Fy20

Transfer To:
10875 Citywide Student Support and Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57705 Services - Space Rental
254009 Central Office Operations
376807 Truant Alternative Optional Education Fy20

Amount: $7,748

496.

Transfer from Ellen H Richards Career Academy High School to Citywide Student Support and Engagement
Rationale:

Aligning to approved grant budget

Transfer From:
53051 Ellen H Richards Career Academy High School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000044 Ctu Sustainable Schools Initiative

Transfer To:
10875 Citywide Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
390011 Community School Initiative
000044 Ctu Sustainable Schools Initiative

Amount: $7,836

497.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Oakdale Christian Academy
Rationale:

Transfer funds for approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic
Amount: $7,921

108

Transfer To:
69556 Oakdale Christian Academy
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370003 Nonpublic Fine Arts
430237 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Christian

 19-1211-EX1
498.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Wells Community Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-51071-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
51071 Wells Community Academy High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $7,929

499.

Transfer from Information & Technology Services to Information & Technology Services
Rationale:

For MDF Power accessories for DR site at 42 W Madison St,

Transfer From:
12510 Information & Technology Services
115 General Education Fund
53306 Commodities: Software (Non-Instructional)
266407 Enterprise Financial Systems
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12510 Information & Technology Services
115 General Education Fund
54105 Services: Non-technical/Laborer
266414 Enterprise Server And Software
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,000

500.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John F Kennedy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-02 To Project# 2019-46201-SCI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46201 John F Kennedy High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,000

501.

Transfer from Computer Science to Computer Science
Rationale:

Transfer to spend down grant - Seminars, Fees, Subscriptions etc.

Transfer From:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
221234
210052

Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
Computer Science For All Fy19

Amount: $8,029

109

Transfer To:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
221117 Computer Education
210052 Computer Science For All Fy19

 19-1211-EX1
502.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to West Park Elementary Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-24721-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24721 West Park Elementary Academy
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,195

503.

Transfer from Counseling and Postsecondary Advising to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds that dropped due to expenditure swap

Transfer From:
10850 Counseling and Postsecondary Advising
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
51100 Teacher Salaries - Regular
212013 Counseling & Guidance Services
322024 Career & Technical Educ. Improvement Grant (Ctei)
Fy20

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
322024 Career & Technical Educ. Improvement Grant (Ctei)
Fy20

Amount: $8,227

504.

Transfer from Arts to Arts
Rationale:

Transfer requested for Year 2 Allocation per Approved Grant Budget from Misc. - Contingent Projects line.

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
336 NCLB Title V Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
500026 Project Cultivate Fy20

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
336 NCLB Title V Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
500026 Project Cultivate Fy20

Amount: $8,250

505.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to West Ridge Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-12 To Project# 2020-22381-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253515 Energy
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22381 West Ridge Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,400

110

 19-1211-EX1
506.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

Payment for Basic Nurse Training Program

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
119035
474567

Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
148001 Allied Health
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Amount: $8,468

507.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Infinity Math Science and Technology High School
Rationale:

Supplies for STEM program

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
125023 Stem - Extended Student Learning
008011 Stem Programs

Transfer To:
55151 Infinity Math Science and Technology High School
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
125023 Stem - Extended Student Learning
008011 Stem Programs

Amount: $8,500

508.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Manley Career Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-04 To Project# 2020-53111-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
53111 Manley Career Academy High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,500

509.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Lydia Home Association
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Neglected Sites

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
334 NCLB Title 1 - Neglected & Delinquent
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
125008 Title I - Neglected & Delinquent Programs
430526 Neglected Programs Fy20
Amount: $8,558

111

Transfer To:
69086 Lydia Home Association
334 NCLB Title 1 - Neglected & Delinquent
53405 Commodities - Supplies
125008 Title I - Neglected & Delinquent Programs
430526 Neglected Programs Fy20

 19-1211-EX1
510.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John J Audubon Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-22091-OFR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22091 John J Audubon Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,590

511.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Southside Occupational Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-427-00-01 To Project# 2018-49031-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
49031 Southside Occupational Academy High School
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,607

512.

Transfer from Nutrition Support Services - City Wide to Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
Rationale:

Transfer for Furniture order delivery charges.

Transfer From:
12050 Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
312 Lunchroom Fund
55010 Property - Furniture
256009 Food Service
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12050 Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
312 Lunchroom Fund
54560 Delivery Service
256009 Food Service
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,627

513.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Talman Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-26781-OFR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26781 Talman Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,670

514.

Transfer from School Transportation - City Wide to Risk Management
Rationale:

For insurance payment for 2 Chevrolet Cutaway Buses effective 10/15/19.

Transfer From:
11940 School Transportation - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
54210 Pupil Transportation
255021 Options Student Transportation
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12460 Risk Management
210 Workers' & Unemployment Compensation/Tort
54530 Services - Insurance - General Liability - Premium
231114 General Liability Insurance
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,688

112

 19-1211-EX1
515.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Michele Clark Academic Prep Magnet High School
Rationale:

Supplies for STEM program

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
125023 Stem - Extended Student Learning
008011 Stem Programs

Transfer To:
41051 Michele Clark Academic Prep Magnet High School
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
125023 Stem - Extended Student Learning
008011 Stem Programs

Amount: $8,721

516.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Frank I Bennett Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-05 To Project# 2019-22241-FAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
254605 School Safety Services
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22241 Frank I Bennett Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,776

517.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Parkside Elementary Community Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-05 To Project# 2019-31201-FAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
254605 School Safety Services
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
31201 Parkside Elementary Community Academy
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,776

518.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Woodlawn Community Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-05 To Project# 2019-23631-FAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
254605 School Safety Services
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23631 Woodlawn Community Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,776

519.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Albert G Lane Technical High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-46221-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46221 Albert G Lane Technical High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,800

113

 19-1211-EX1
520.

Transfer from YCCS-Dr. Pedro Albizu Campos Puerto Rican HS to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66615 YCCS-Dr. Pedro Albizu Campos Puerto Rican HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $8,808

521.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Harold Washington Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-07 To Project# 2020-24921-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253539 Developer Services And Permitting
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24921 Harold Washington Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
320008 Playgrounds And Stadia
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,874

522.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Jesse Sherwood Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-07 To Project# 2020-25351-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253539 Developer Services And Permitting
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25351 Jesse Sherwood Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253511 Campus Parks
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,874

523.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Bowen High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-46491-OBI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46491 Bowen High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,889

524.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William E Dever Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-07 To Project# 2020-22941-TUS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253539 Developer Services And Permitting
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22941 William E Dever Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,950

114

 19-1211-EX1
525.

Transfer from Henry H Nash Elementary School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2018-24641-NCP To Award# 2017-485-00-09 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
24641 Henry H Nash Elementary School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253511 Campus Parks
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253511 Campus Parks
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,972

526.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Henry H Nash Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-03 To Project# 2018-24641-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253513 Playlots
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24641 Henry H Nash Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253511 Campus Parks
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,972

527.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Gwendolyn Brooks College Preparatory Academy HS
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2020-47051-OHI-2 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
47051 Gwendolyn Brooks College Preparatory Academy HS
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $8,985

528.

Transfer from Diverse Learner Quality Instruction to Diverse Learner Supports & Services
Rationale:

DEPT RQST - For Car Fare Reimbursement

Transfer From:
11674 Diverse Learner Quality Instruction
114 Special Education Fund
54215 Car Fare
221001 School Instructional Support Services
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
11610 Diverse Learner Supports & Services
114 Special Education Fund
54215 Car Fare
230010 Administrative Support
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,000

529.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

CTE Chicago Builds Welding Program Equipment

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20
Amount: $9,121

115

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
55005 Property - Equipment
144603 Cte- Construction
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

 19-1211-EX1
530.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John L Marsh Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-10 To Project# 2020-24361-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009506 Asset Management Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24361 John L Marsh Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,280

531.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Gwendolyn Brooks College Preparatory Academy HS
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-10 To Project# 2020-47051-OEI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009506 Asset Management Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
47051 Gwendolyn Brooks College Preparatory Academy HS
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,350

532.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Office of Student Health & Wellness
Rationale:

Transfer funding to Office of Student Health & Wellness for the FY20 UIC Whole Child program.

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Transfer To:
14050 Office of Student Health & Wellness
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
580290 Uic Whole Child Fy20

Amount: $9,355

533.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to KIPP One Academy
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66032 KIPP One Academy
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $9,464

534.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to James Madison Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-24301-OPI-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24301 James Madison Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,470

116

 19-1211-EX1
535.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Ida Crown Jewish Academy
Rationale:

Transfer funds for approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69361 Ida Crown Jewish Academy
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
300013 Non-Public Professional Development
430239 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Jewish

Amount: $9,520

536.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to St Philip Neri School
Rationale:

Transfer funds for approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69245 St Philip Neri School
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370003 Nonpublic Fine Arts
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Amount: $9,523

537.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Noble - UIC College Prep
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66147 Noble - UIC College Prep
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $9,568

538.

Transfer from Talent Office to Information & Technology Services
Rationale:

Rewiring phone and data for a new reconfiguration of workspace at Garfield Park.

Transfer From:
11010 Talent Office
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
264054 Absence & Disability Management
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12510 Information & Technology Services
115 General Education Fund
54405 Services - Telephone & Telegraph
254501 Telecom (Non E-Rate)
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,721

539.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Henry Clay Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2020-22731-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22731 Henry Clay Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,740

117

 19-1211-EX1
540.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Paul Cuffe Math-Science Technology Academy ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-23881-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23881 Paul Cuffe Math-Science Technology Academy ES
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,750

541.

Transfer from Early Childhood Development - City Wide to Louisa May Alcott College Preparatory ES
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for second allocation for Tuition Based Pre-K.

Transfer From:
11385 Early Childhood Development - City Wide
117 Tuition Based Program
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119027 Prek Instruction
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22041 Louisa May Alcott College Preparatory ES
117 Tuition Based Program
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119027 Prek Instruction
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,750

542.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Mary E McDowell Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-26421-OGC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26421 Mary E McDowell Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,755

543.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Mariano Azuela Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2020-22921-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22921 Mariano Azuela Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,776

544.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Walt Disney Magnet Elementary School
Rationale:

Disney R K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 25%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29401 Walt Disney Magnet Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,780

118

 19-1211-EX1
545.

Transfer from YCCS-Jane Addams Alternative HS to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66618 YCCS-Jane Addams Alternative HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
212017 Other Govt Fnded Prjts-Guidnce
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $9,781

546.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Joseph Warren Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-25761-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25761 Joseph Warren Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,875

547.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Fernwood Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-485-00-11 To Project# 2020-23201-STK ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009555 Chimney
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23201 Fernwood Elementary School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,940

548.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John Harvard Elementary School of Excellence
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-485-00-11 To Project# 2020-23581-STK ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009555 Chimney
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23581 John Harvard Elementary School of Excellence
485 CIT PayGo Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,940

549.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Marquette Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2020-24341-OHI-3 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24341 Marquette Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $9,950

119

 19-1211-EX1
550.

Transfer from Citywide Student Support and Engagement to Citywide Student Support and Engagement
Rationale:

Central a State SER Rent July and August.

Transfer From:
10875 Citywide Student Support and Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
376807 Truant Alternative Optional Education Fy20

Transfer To:
10875 Citywide Student Support and Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57705 Services - Space Rental
254009 Central Office Operations
376807 Truant Alternative Optional Education Fy20

Amount: $10,000

551.

Transfer from Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) programs to Helen M Hefferan Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for STEM programming.

Transfer From:
10871 Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM)
programs
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
125023 Stem - Extended Student Learning
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
23711 Helen M Hefferan Elementary School
115
57940
125023
000901

General Education Fund
Miscellaneous Charges
Stem - Extended Student Learning
Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

552.

Transfer from Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) programs to Richard T Crane Medical Preparatory HS
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for STEM programming.

Transfer From:
10871 Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM)
programs
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
241016 Instructional Administration
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46641 Richard T Crane Medical Preparatory HS
115
57940
125023
000901

General Education Fund
Miscellaneous Charges
Stem - Extended Student Learning
Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

553.

Transfer from Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) programs to Jesse Owens Community Academy
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for STEM programming.

Transfer From:
10871 Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM)
programs
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
241016 Instructional Administration
000000 Default Value
Amount: $10,000

120

Transfer To:
31071 Jesse Owens Community Academy
115
57940
125023
000901

General Education Fund
Miscellaneous Charges
Stem - Extended Student Learning
Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

 19-1211-EX1
554.

Transfer from Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) programs to Langston Hughes Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for STEM programming.

Transfer From:
10871 Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM)
programs
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
241016 Instructional Administration
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22451 Langston Hughes Elementary School
115
57940
125023
000901

General Education Fund
Miscellaneous Charges
Stem - Extended Student Learning
Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

555.

Transfer from Jesse Owens Community Academy to Jesse Owens Elementary Community Academy
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for STEM programming

Transfer From:
31071 Jesse Owens Community Academy
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
125023 Stem - Extended Student Learning
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Transfer To:
23351 Jesse Owens Elementary Community Academy
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
125023 Stem - Extended Student Learning
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

556.

Transfer from Early Childhood Development - City Wide to Oscar Mayer Magnet School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for second allocation for Tuition Based Pre-K.

Transfer From:
11385 Early Childhood Development - City Wide
117 Tuition Based Program
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119027 Prek Instruction
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24401 Oscar Mayer Magnet School
117 Tuition Based Program
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119027 Prek Instruction
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,000

557.

Transfer from Early Childhood Development - City Wide to Louis Nettelhorst Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for second allocation for Tuition Based Pre-K.

Transfer From:
11385 Early Childhood Development - City Wide
117 Tuition Based Program
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119027 Prek Instruction
000000 Default Value
Amount: $10,000

121

Transfer To:
24661 Louis Nettelhorst Elementary School
117 Tuition Based Program
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119027 Prek Instruction
000000 Default Value

 19-1211-EX1
558.

Transfer from Orr Academy High School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
28151 Orr Academy High School
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
53405 Commodities - Supplies
211001 Attendance & Social Work
433131 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 1) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $10,000

559.

Transfer from Talent Office - City Wide to Joseph E Gary Elementary School
Rationale:

School did not use correct funds for teacher residency bucket.

Transfer From:
11070 Talent Office - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
264207 Teacher Sourcing & Recruitment
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23311 Joseph E Gary Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119027 Prek Instruction
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

560.

Transfer from Talent Office - City Wide to Alex Haley Elementary Academy
Rationale:

Michael Sitkowski. Please transfer funds for teacher residency bucket.

Transfer From:
11070 Talent Office - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
264207 Teacher Sourcing & Recruitment
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22301 Alex Haley Elementary Academy
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
221066 Teaching Residency & Internship
000575 Student Based Budgeting

Amount: $10,000

561.

Transfer from Talent Office - City Wide to Dr. Martin L. King Jr Academy of Social Justice
Rationale:

Michael Sitkowski. Please transfer funds for teacher residency bucket.

Transfer From:
11070 Talent Office - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
264207 Teacher Sourcing & Recruitment
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26371 Dr. Martin L. King Jr Academy of Social Justice
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
221066 Teaching Residency & Internship
000575 Student Based Budgeting

Amount: $10,000

562.

Transfer from Talent Office - City Wide to Theodore Roosevelt High School
Rationale:

Michael Sitkowski. Please transfer funds for teacher residency bucket.

Transfer From:
11070 Talent Office - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
264207 Teacher Sourcing & Recruitment
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46271 Theodore Roosevelt High School
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
221066 Teaching Residency & Internship
000576 Supplemental Aid

Amount: $10,000

122

 19-1211-EX1
563.

Transfer from Teaching and Learning Office to Teaching and Learning Office
Rationale:

Bucket for facilitator summit.

Transfer From:
10810 Teaching and Learning Office
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
53405 Commodities - Supplies
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
494070 Title Iia - Teacher Quality

Transfer To:
10810 Teaching and Learning Office
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
494070 Title Iia - Teacher Quality

Amount: $10,000

564.

Transfer from Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) programs to Genevieve Melody Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for STEM programming.

Transfer From:
10871 Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM)
programs
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
241016 Instructional Administration
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26351 Genevieve Melody Elementary School
115
57940
125023
000901

General Education Fund
Miscellaneous Charges
Stem - Extended Student Learning
Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

565.

Transfer from Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) programs to Lillian R. Nicholson STEM Academy
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for STEM programming.

Transfer From:
10871 Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM)
programs
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
241016 Instructional Administration
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22181 Lillian R. Nicholson STEM Academy
115
57940
125023
000901

General Education Fund
Miscellaneous Charges
Stem - Extended Student Learning
Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

566.

Transfer from Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) programs to James Wadsworth Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for STEM programming.

Transfer From:
10871 Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM)
programs
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
241016 Instructional Administration
000000 Default Value
Amount: $10,000

123

Transfer To:
25711 James Wadsworth Elementary School
115
57940
125023
000901

General Education Fund
Miscellaneous Charges
Stem - Extended Student Learning
Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

 19-1211-EX1
567.

Transfer from Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) programs to Michele Clark Academic Prep Magnet High School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for STEM programming.

Transfer From:
10871 Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM)
programs
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
241016 Instructional Administration
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
41051 Michele Clark Academic Prep Magnet High School
115
57940
125023
000901

General Education Fund
Miscellaneous Charges
Stem - Extended Student Learning
Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

568.

Transfer from Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) programs to Infinity Math Science and Technology High School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for STEM programming.

Transfer From:
10871 Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM)
programs
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
241016 Instructional Administration
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
55151 Infinity Math Science and Technology High School
115
57940
125023
000901

General Education Fund
Miscellaneous Charges
Stem - Extended Student Learning
Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

569.

Transfer from Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) programs to Eric Solorio Academy High School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for STEM programming.

Transfer From:
10871 Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM)
programs
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
241016 Instructional Administration
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46101 Eric Solorio Academy High School
115
57940
125023
000901

General Education Fund
Miscellaneous Charges
Stem - Extended Student Learning
Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $10,000

570.

Transfer from Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) programs to Dunne Technology Academy
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for STEM programming

Transfer From:
10871 Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM)
programs
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
241016 Instructional Administration
000000 Default Value
Amount: $10,000

124

Transfer To:
25491 Dunne Technology Academy
115
57940
125023
000901

General Education Fund
Miscellaneous Charges
Stem - Extended Student Learning
Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

 19-1211-EX1
571.

Transfer from Hiram H Belding Elementary School to Richard Edwards Elementary School
Rationale:

RITM0365753-budget transfer request to fund the teacher residency program at Belding ES.

Transfer From:
22221 Hiram H Belding Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
000575 Student Based Budgeting

Transfer To:
23081 Richard Edwards Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
221066 Teaching Residency & Internship
000575 Student Based Budgeting

Amount: $10,000

572.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

CTE Culinary Arts Program Equipment Repair

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
56105 Services - Repair Contracts
140505 Culinary Arts
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Amount: $10,000

573.

Transfer from Talent Office to Talent Office
Rationale:

Transfer fund is needed for LinkedIn Annual Contract.

Transfer From:
11010 Talent Office
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
53306 Commodities: Software (Non-Instructional)
264207 Teacher Sourcing & Recruitment
494070 Title Iia - Teacher Quality

Transfer To:
11010 Talent Office
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54515 Services - Advertising
264207 Teacher Sourcing & Recruitment
494070 Title Iia - Teacher Quality

Amount: $10,000

574.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to James Otis Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-24791-OHI-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24791 James Otis Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,034

575.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Helen Peirce International Studies ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-04 To Project# 2020-24891-OEL ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24891 Helen Peirce International Studies ES
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,086

125

 19-1211-EX1
576.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Marist High School
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494071 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
69386 Marist High School
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
53405 Commodities - Supplies
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494071 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Amount: $10,159

577.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to ASPIRA Charter School - Haugan Middle School
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66351 ASPIRA Charter School - Haugan Middle School
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $10,296

578.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Noble - Chicago Bulls College Prep
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66572 Noble - Chicago Bulls College Prep
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $10,296

579.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Josiah Pickard Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-05 To Project# 2018-24961-MCR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253524 Playground Program
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24961 Josiah Pickard Elementary School
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,409

580.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Carl Schurz High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-423-00-01 To Project# 2020-46281-ROF ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
423 Series 2020 CIT
56310 Capitalized Construction
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46281 Carl Schurz High School
423 Series 2020 CIT
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,426

126

 19-1211-EX1
581.

Transfer from Carl Schurz High School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2020-46281-ROF To Award# 2020-423-00-01 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
46281 Carl Schurz High School
423 Series 2020 CIT
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
423 Series 2020 CIT
56310 Capitalized Construction
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,426

582.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Carl Schurz High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-06 To Project# 2020-46281-ROF ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46281 Carl Schurz High School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,426

583.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to ASPIRA Charter School - Early College High School
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66254 ASPIRA Charter School - Early College High School
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $10,504

584.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Willa Cather Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-04 To Project# 2020-26021-OGC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26021 Willa Cather Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,660

585.

Transfer from Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS) to Chicago Collegiate Charter School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for charter reimbursement request approved through the FY19 IL-Empower grant.

Transfer From:
66101 Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS)
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19
Amount: $10,711

127

Transfer To:
66671 Chicago Collegiate Charter School
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

 19-1211-EX1
586.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Rachel Carson Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-22601-OHI-2 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22601 Rachel Carson Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,740

587.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Edward A Bouchet Math & Science Academy ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-06 To Project# 2019-22371-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22371 Edward A Bouchet Math & Science Academy ES
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,972

588.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Henry D Lloyd Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-24221-OMA-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24221 Henry D Lloyd Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $10,980

589.

Transfer from Arts to Arts
Rationale:

Transfer requested for Year 2 Allocation per Approved Grant Budget from Misc. - Contingent Projects line.

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
336 NCLB Title V Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
500026 Project Cultivate Fy20

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
336 NCLB Title V Fund
53205 Commodities - Supplied Food
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
500026 Project Cultivate Fy20

Amount: $11,000

590.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William F Finkl Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2020-23541-OSS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23541 William F Finkl Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $11,142

128

 19-1211-EX1
591.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

CTE Chicago Builds Electricity Program Supplies

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
53405 Commodities - Supplies
140345 Electrician
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Amount: $11,197

592.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Disney II Magnet School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-26921-SCI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26921 Disney II Magnet School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $11,236

593.

Transfer from Acero Charter Schools - Roberto Clemente to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66133 Acero Charter Schools - Roberto Clemente
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433140 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 10) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $11,250

594.

Transfer from YCCS-Austin Career Education Center HS to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66611 YCCS-Austin Career Education Center HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
212017 Other Govt Fnded Prjts-Guidnce
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $11,302

595.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to CICS - Prairie
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition
Amount: $11,336

129

Transfer To:
66161 CICS - Prairie
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

 19-1211-EX1
596.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Gwendolyn Brooks College Preparatory Academy HS
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2020-47051-OHI-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
47051 Gwendolyn Brooks College Preparatory Academy HS
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $11,375

597.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Suder Montessori Magnet ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-11 To Project# 2020-26881-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26881 Suder Montessori Magnet ES
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $11,519

598.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to James Ward Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-11 To Project# 2020-25751-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25751 James Ward Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $11,519

599.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Norwood Park Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-04 To Project# 2020-24711-OEL ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24711 Norwood Park Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $11,539

600.

Transfer from Norwood Park Elementary School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2020-24711-OEL To Award# 2020-488-00-04 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
24711 Norwood Park Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $11,539

130

 19-1211-EX1
601.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Alcott College Preparatory High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-70241-SCI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
70241 Alcott College Preparatory High School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $11,564

602.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to St Mary Of The Lake School
Rationale:

Transfer funds for approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69190 St Mary Of The Lake School
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370003 Nonpublic Fine Arts
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Amount: $11,616

603.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Marine Leadership Academy at Ames
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-41111-SCI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
41111 Marine Leadership Academy at Ames
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $11,624

604.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Theodore Roosevelt High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-02 To Project# 2019-46271-SCI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46271 Theodore Roosevelt High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $11,630

131

 19-1211-EX1
605.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Independent Schools Of Chicago
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958
494071

Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
70140 Independent Schools Of Chicago
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
228950 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Independent)
494072 Title Iia - Other Private Supplementary Servc.

Amount: $11,890

606.

Transfer from YCCS-ASPIRA,Antonia Pantoja Alternative HS to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66108 YCCS-ASPIRA,Antonia Pantoja Alternative HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
433140 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 10) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $11,970

607.

Transfer from Computer Science to Computer Science
Rationale:

Transfer to spend down grant - Commodities

Transfer From:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
210052 Computer Science For All Fy19

Transfer To:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
53405 Commodities - Supplies
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
210052 Computer Science For All Fy19

Amount: $12,000

608.

Transfer from Social Science & Civic Engagement to Social Science & Civic Engagement
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for HS Social Science nonpersonnel expenditures

Transfer From:
10813 Social Science & Civic Engagement
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
390003 Service Learning
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
10813 Social Science & Civic Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
113014 Social Studies - Hs
000000 Default Value

Amount: $12,000

132

 19-1211-EX1
609.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Neal F Simeon Career Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-53061-OEI-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
53061 Neal F Simeon Career Academy High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $12,060

610.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Arthur A Libby Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-11 To Project# 2019-24171-PKC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24171 Arthur A Libby Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $12,062

611.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Francis M McKay Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2020-24451-OHI-2 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24451 Francis M McKay Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $12,095

612.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Chicago Math and Science Academy Charter School
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66281 Chicago Math and Science Academy Charter School
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $12,168

613.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Acero Charter Schools - Bartolom de las Casas
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition
Amount: $12,168

133

Transfer To:
66392 Acero Charter Schools - Bartolom de las Casas
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

 19-1211-EX1
614.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Englewood STEM HS
Rationale:

Supplies for STEM program

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
125023 Stem - Extended Student Learning
008011 Stem Programs

Transfer To:
46691 Englewood STEM HS
115 General Education Fund
53405 Commodities - Supplies
125023 Stem - Extended Student Learning
008011 Stem Programs

Amount: $12,250

615.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William G Hibbard Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-04 To Project# 2019-23801-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23801 William G Hibbard Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $12,300

616.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Independent Schools Of Chicago
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IV programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
358 Title IV
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958
440047

Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
70140 Independent Schools Of Chicago
358 Title IV
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
228950 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Independent)
440047 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Amount: $12,311

617.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

Precision - Career Skill Exams

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20
Amount: $12,328

134

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
53304 Instructional Materials (Digital)
223013 Assessments/Standards
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

 19-1211-EX1
618.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

Precision - Career Skill Exams

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
53304 Instructional Materials (Digital)
223013 Assessments/Standards
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Amount: $12,328

619.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Hawthorne Elementary Scholastic Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-10 To Project# 2020-29131-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009506 Asset Management Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29131 Hawthorne Elementary Scholastic Academy
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $12,380

620.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to St Thomas Of Canterbury School
Rationale:

Transfer funds for approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69288 St Thomas Of Canterbury School
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370003 Nonpublic Fine Arts
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Amount: $12,384

621.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Edwin G. Foreman College and Career Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-46131-SCI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46131 Edwin G. Foreman College and Career Academy
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $12,460

622.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to CICS - Bucktown
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition
Amount: $12,480

135

Transfer To:
66071 CICS - Bucktown
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

 19-1211-EX1
623.

Transfer from Department of Personalized Learning to Adam Clayton Powell Paideia Community Academy ES
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for EdTech Licenses.

Transfer From:
10825 Department of Personalized Learning
358
53307
119070
440046

Title IV
Commodities: Software Licenses (Instructional)
Personalized Learning Instruction
Title Iv, Part A

Transfer To:
26291 Adam Clayton Powell Paideia Community Academy
ES
358 Title IV
53307 Commodities: Software Licenses (Instructional)
119070 Personalized Learning Instruction
440046 Title Iv, Part A

Amount: $12,600

624.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Noble - ITW David Speer Academy
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66149 Noble - ITW David Speer Academy
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $12,688

625.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Mancel Talcott Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-25581-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25581 Mancel Talcott Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $12,875

626.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to St Rita High School of Cascia
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IV programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
358 Title IV
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
440047 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic
Amount: $12,911

136

Transfer To:
69426 St Rita High School of Cascia
358 Title IV
53405 Commodities - Supplies
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
440047 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

 19-1211-EX1
627.

Transfer from YCCS- McKinley Lakeside Leadership HS to University of Chicago - Carter G. Woodson
Rationale:

Charter reimbursement request approved through the FY19 IL Empower grant.

Transfer From:
66107 YCCS- McKinley Lakeside Leadership HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
66113 University of Chicago - Carter G. Woodson
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Amount: $13,000

628.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Intrinsic Charter School
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66691 Intrinsic Charter School
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $13,000

629.

Transfer from Network 4 to Network 4
Rationale:

Budget transfer to open up a sub bucket for the Network to cover for teacher planning sessions for schools that are in the Teaching for
Biliteracy cohort.

Transfer From:
02441 Network 4
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
221080 Aio - Improvement Of Instruction
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
02441 Network 4
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $13,000

630.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Independent Schools Of Chicago
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494071 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.
Amount: $13,050

137

Transfer To:
70140 Independent Schools Of Chicago
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
228950 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Independent)
494072 Title Iia - Other Private Supplementary Servc.

 19-1211-EX1
631.

Transfer from CICS - Irving Park to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66074 CICS - Irving Park
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $13,152

632.

Transfer from YCCS- McKinley Lakeside Leadership HS to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66107 YCCS- McKinley Lakeside Leadership HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $13,275

633.

Transfer from Sports Administration and Facilities Management - City Wide to Sports Administration and Facilities Management - City
Wide
Rationale:

Student program expense

Transfer From:
13737 Sports Administration and Facilities Management - City
Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
150005 High School Sports
000867 Sports Administration Revenue

Transfer To:
13737 Sports Administration and Facilities Management - City
Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
150005 High School Sports
000867 Sports Administration Revenue

Amount: $13,500

634.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Noble - Pritzker College Prep
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition
Amount: $13,520

138

Transfer To:
66142 Noble - Pritzker College Prep
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

 19-1211-EX1
635.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to ECIA Projects
Rationale:

Benefits for Title III tutoring buckets.

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Transfer To:
12693 ECIA Projects
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57405 Medicare
180040 English Language Learner (Ell/Lep) Programs
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $13,558

636.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Emiliano Zapata Elementary Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-03 To Project# 2017-23611-ANX ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253545 Individual Accommodations
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23611 Emiliano Zapata Elementary Academy
486 CIT Bond Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253518 Annex
000000 Default Value

Amount: $13,688

637.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to William G Hibbard Elementary School
Rationale:

Hibbard K-8 OST Award Program Staffing Award - 50%

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
320020 Other After Schools Programs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23801 William G Hibbard Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000675
K-* Ost Award Program

Amount: $13,692

638.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Asian Human Services - Passages Charter School
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66191 Asian Human Services - Passages Charter School
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $13,728

639.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Christopher House Charter School
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition
Amount: $13,728

139

Transfer To:
66661 Christopher House Charter School
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

 19-1211-EX1
640.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to CICS - Northtown
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66241 CICS - Northtown
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $13,832

641.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

Grant Expired - Refund Unspent Fund to CFF - Sweep Funds back to CFF Contingency Line

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
905002 Cff - Mrht

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600005 Special Income Fund 124 - Contingency
905000 Grants From Children First Fund

Amount: $13,852

642.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

CTE Chicago Builds Welding Program Supplies

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
53405 Commodities - Supplies
144603 Cte- Construction
474567 Special Student Needs-C. Perkins Fy20

Amount: $13,924

643.

Transfer from Student Support and Engagement to Network 6
Rationale:

Funding for Tier 1 and Tier 2 teaming structures

Transfer From:
11371 Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
211210 Attendance Services
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
02461 Network 6
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
221302 School Development/Intervention
000025 Osse Attendance Project

Amount: $13,950

140

 19-1211-EX1
644.

Transfer from Computer Science to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54205 Travel Expense
221117 Computer Education
500012 Chicago Alliance For Equity In Computer Science
(Cafe-Cs) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $14,000

645.

Transfer from Acero Charter Schools - Octavio Paz Campus to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66131 Acero Charter Schools - Octavio Paz Campus
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $14,000

646.

Transfer from Principal Quality to Principal Quality
Rationale:

Transfer funds for upcoming events.

Transfer From:
02541 Principal Quality
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001
494070

Transfer To:
02541 Principal Quality
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
494070 Title Iia - Teacher Quality

General Salary S Bkt
Title Iia - Teacher Quality

Amount: $14,000

647.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Florence Nightingale Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-24671-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24671 Florence Nightingale Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $14,075

141

 19-1211-EX1
648.

Transfer from YCCS-Truman Middle College HS to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66625 YCCS-Truman Middle College HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
223013 Assessments/Standards
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $14,100

649.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Carter G Woodson North School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-12 To Project# 2020-26501-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253515 Energy
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26501 Carter G Woodson North School
488 Series 2017H
56304 Capitalized Software
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $14,150

650.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Carter G Woodson North School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-12 To Project# 2020-26501-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253515 Energy
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26501 Carter G Woodson North School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $14,150

651.

Transfer from Carter G Woodson North School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2020-26501-BAS To Award# 2020-488-00-12 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
26501 Carter G Woodson North School
488 Series 2017H
56304 Capitalized Software
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253515 Energy
000000 Default Value

Amount: $14,150

652.

Transfer from Teaching and Learning Office to Teaching and Learning Office
Rationale:

Transfer of funds per A. Ayapan

Transfer From:
10810 Teaching and Learning Office
115 General Education Fund
54520 Services - Printing
230010 Administrative Support
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
10810 Teaching and Learning Office
115 General Education Fund
53307 Commodities: Software Licenses (Instructional)
230010 Administrative Support
000000 Default Value

Amount: $14,208

142

 19-1211-EX1
653.

Transfer from Computer Science to Computer Science
Rationale:

Transfer funds for grant spend-down

Transfer From:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
210052 Computer Science For All Fy19

Transfer To:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
55005 Property - Equipment
222209 Computer/Media Techonology Services
210052 Computer Science For All Fy19

Amount: $14,277

654.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Acero Charter Schools - Esmeralda Santiago
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66601 Acero Charter Schools - Esmeralda Santiago
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $14,456

655.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to A.N. Pritzker School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-25871-OEI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25871 A.N. Pritzker School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $14,600

656.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Frederick A Douglass Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-12 To Project# 2020-41061-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253515 Energy
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
41061 Frederick A Douglass Academy High School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $14,700

657.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Asa Philip Randolph Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-04 To Project# 2019-29111-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29111 Asa Philip Randolph Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $14,732

143

 19-1211-EX1
658.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Chicago Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-46481-OLT ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46481 Chicago Academy High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $14,750

659.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Social and Emotional Learning - City Wide
Rationale:

Transfer funding to Social and Emotional Learning - City Wide for the FY20 Teams, Interventions, Evaluations, and Resources for
Supportive Schools (TIERSS)

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
358 Title IV
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Transfer To:
10898 Social and Emotional Learning - City Wide
358 Title IV
54205 Travel Expense
211010 Tier I Services
509192 Teams, Interventions, Evaluations, And Resources For
Supportive Schools (Tierss)

Amount: $14,764

660.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John Milton Gregory Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-04 To Project# 2020-23441-OLT ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23441 John Milton Gregory Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $14,889

661.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William Penn Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-01 To Project# 2020-24911-ROF ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24911 William Penn Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $14,940

144

 19-1211-EX1
662.

Transfer from Network 2 to Network 2
Rationale:

Funds are needed to open Teacher Extended Day and Substitute bucket positions.

Transfer From:
02421 Network 2
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
221080 Aio - Improvement Of Instruction
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
02421 Network 2
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
221080 Aio - Improvement Of Instruction
000000 Default Value

Amount: $15,000

663.

Transfer from Talent Office - City Wide to Albert R Sabin Elementary Magnet School
Rationale:

Per Michael Sitkowski. Transfer for Teacher Residency Bucket

Transfer From:
11070 Talent Office - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
264207 Teacher Sourcing & Recruitment
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29371 Albert R Sabin Elementary Magnet School
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
221066 Teaching Residency & Internship
000576 Supplemental Aid

Amount: $15,000

664.

Transfer from Network 13 to Network 13
Rationale:

Opening bucket positions for teachers and SECAs

Transfer From:
02531 Network 13
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
221080 Aio - Improvement Of Instruction
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
02531 Network 13
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
221080 Aio - Improvement Of Instruction
000000 Default Value

Amount: $15,000

665.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Charles Sumner Math & Science Community Acad ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-01 To Project# 2019-31221-MCR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
31221 Charles Sumner Math & Science Community Acad ES
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $15,000

145

 19-1211-EX1
666.

Transfer from Citywide Student Support and Engagement to Citywide Student Support and Engagement
Rationale:

CSI Direct Instruction Services

Transfer From:
10875 Citywide Student Support and Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
442196 21st Century Community Learning Centers (Cohort
19-Grant 4) Fy20

Transfer To:
10875 Citywide Student Support and Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
442196 21st Century Community Learning Centers (Cohort
19-Grant 4) Fy20

Amount: $15,000

667.

Transfer from Talent Office - City Wide to Cesar E Chavez Multicultural Academic Center ES
Rationale:

Per Michael Sitkowski. Please transfer funds for teacher residency bucket.

Transfer From:
11070 Talent Office - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
264207 Teacher Sourcing & Recruitment
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25151 Cesar E Chavez Multicultural Academic Center ES
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
221066 Teaching Residency & Internship
000575 Student Based Budgeting

Amount: $15,000

668.

Transfer from Talent Office - City Wide to Southside Occupational Academy High School
Rationale:

Michael Sitkowski. Please transfer funds for teacher residency bucket.

Transfer From:
11070 Talent Office - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
264207 Teacher Sourcing & Recruitment
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
49031 Southside Occupational Academy High School
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
221066 Teaching Residency & Internship
000576 Supplemental Aid

Amount: $15,000

669.

Transfer from Counseling and Postsecondary Advising to Counseling and Postsecondary Advising
Rationale:

Postage for the SY20 Semester 1 College-Career Readiness Guides mailing to parents

Transfer From:
10850 Counseling and Postsecondary Advising
115 General Education Fund
54520 Services - Printing
212013 Counseling & Guidance Services
000000 Default Value
Amount: $15,000

146

Transfer To:
10850 Counseling and Postsecondary Advising
115 General Education Fund
53510 Commodities - Postage
212013 Counseling & Guidance Services
000000 Default Value

 19-1211-EX1
670.

Transfer from YCCS-CCA Academy HS to Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS)
Rationale:

Transfer of funds to mother unit for YCCS provided through FY20 IL-Empower (Group 2) grant.

Transfer From:
66612 YCCS-CCA Academy HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
433151
Il-Empower (Cohort 20 - Grant 11) Fy20

Transfer To:
66101 Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS)
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
433151
Il-Empower (Cohort 20 - Grant 11) Fy20

Amount: $15,000

671.

Transfer from YCCS-Olive Harvey Middle College HS to Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS)
Rationale:

Transfer of funds to mother unit for YCCS provided through FY20 IL-Empower (Group 2) grant.

Transfer From:
66621 YCCS-Olive Harvey Middle College HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
433151
Il-Empower (Cohort 20 - Grant 11) Fy20

Transfer To:
66101 Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS)
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
433151
Il-Empower (Cohort 20 - Grant 11) Fy20

Amount: $15,000

672.

Transfer from YCCS-West Town Acad Alternative HS to Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS)
Rationale:

Transfer of funds to mother unit for YCCS provided through FY20 IL-Empower (Group 2) grant.

Transfer From:
66627 YCCS-West Town Acad Alternative HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
433151
Il-Empower (Cohort 20 - Grant 11) Fy20

Transfer To:
66101 Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS)
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
433151
Il-Empower (Cohort 20 - Grant 11) Fy20

Amount: $15,000

673.

Transfer from YCCS-West HS to Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS)
Rationale:

Transfer of funds to mother unit for YCCS provided through FY20 IL-Empower (Group 2) grant.

Transfer From:
66628 YCCS-West HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
433151
Il-Empower (Cohort 20 - Grant 11) Fy20

Transfer To:
66101 Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS)
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
433151
Il-Empower (Cohort 20 - Grant 11) Fy20

Amount: $15,000

674.

Transfer from Arts to Arts
Rationale:

Transfer to allocate Year 2 funds per Approved Grant Budget from Misc. Contingent Projects line.

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
336 NCLB Title V Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
500026 Project Cultivate Fy20

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
336 NCLB Title V Fund
57705 Services - Space Rental
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
500026 Project Cultivate Fy20

Amount: $15,000

147

 19-1211-EX1
675.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS)
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66101 Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS)
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $15,080

676.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Social and Emotional Learning
Rationale:

transferring funds for benefits for new Transition Specialist position

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119004 Other General Charges
005063 Fy19 School Actions - Englewood

Transfer To:
10895 Social and Emotional Learning
115 General Education Fund
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
005063 Fy19 School Actions - Englewood

Amount: $15,100

677.

Transfer from Spencer Technology Academy to Citywide Student Support and Engagement
Rationale:

Aligning to approved grant budget

Transfer From:
25441 Spencer Technology Academy
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000044 Ctu Sustainable Schools Initiative

Transfer To:
10875 Citywide Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
390011 Community School Initiative
000044 Ctu Sustainable Schools Initiative

Amount: $15,128

678.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to CICS - Irving Park
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66074 CICS - Irving Park
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $15,184

679.

Transfer from Frazier Preparatory Academy Charter School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
26901 Frazier Preparatory Academy Charter School
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19
Amount: $15,300

148

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

 19-1211-EX1
680.

Transfer from Talent Office to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
11010 Talent Office
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
53405 Commodities - Supplies
262005 Educator Effectiveness
542133 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity School (Dlos)
Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $15,412

681.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William Rainey Harper High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-46151-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46151 William Rainey Harper High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $15,575

682.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to George B Swift Elementary Specialty School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-427-00-01 To Project# 2018-25571-MEP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25571 George B Swift Elementary Specialty School
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $15,733

683.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Acero Charter Schools - Major Hector P. Garcia MD
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition
Amount: $16,016

149

Transfer To:
66394 Acero Charter Schools - Major Hector P. Garcia MD
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

 19-1211-EX1
684.

Transfer from Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS) to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66101 Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS)
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $16,086

685.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Barbara Vick Early Childhood & Family Center
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-485-00-13 To Project# 2020-26731-ROF ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26731 Barbara Vick Early Childhood & Family Center
485 CIT PayGo Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $16,184

686.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Independent Schools Of Chicago
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958
494071

Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
70140 Independent Schools Of Chicago
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
228950 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Independent)
494072 Title Iia - Other Private Supplementary Servc.

Amount: $16,200

687.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Lake View High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-07 To Project# 2020-46211-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253539 Developer Services And Permitting
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46211 Lake View High School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $16,360

150

 19-1211-EX1
688.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Little Village Multiplex
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-11 To Project# 2020-49121-SCI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
49121 Little Village Multiplex
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $16,592

689.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to DuSable Multiplex
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2020-46541-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46541 DuSable Multiplex
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $16,875

690.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Louis Pasteur Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-24851-OHI-2 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24851 Louis Pasteur Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $16,885

691.

Transfer from Robert Lindblom Math & Science Academy HS to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
46511 Robert Lindblom Math & Science Academy HS
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
548024 Track 2 Cs10k: Accelerate Ecs4all Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $16,899

692.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Richard T Crane Medical Preparatory HS
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-12 To Project# 2020-46641-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253515 Energy
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46641 Richard T Crane Medical Preparatory HS
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $16,900

151

 19-1211-EX1
693.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Lake View High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-12 To Project# 2020-46211-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253515 Energy
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46211 Lake View High School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $16,900

694.

Transfer from Richard T Crane Medical Preparatory HS to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2020-46641-BAS To Award# 2020-488-00-12 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
46641 Richard T Crane Medical Preparatory HS
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253515 Energy
000000 Default Value

Amount: $16,900

695.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Richard T Crane Medical Preparatory HS
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-12 To Project# 2020-46641-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253515 Energy
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46641 Richard T Crane Medical Preparatory HS
488 Series 2017H
56304 Capitalized Software
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $16,900

696.

Transfer from Department of JROTC to Phoenix Military Academy High School
Rationale:

Transfer needed for Algebra Resource package for Teachers and Students. Algebra 1 and 2 access 6 years.

Transfer From:
05261 Department of JROTC
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
532011 Accelerated Stem Program Of Study And Leadership
Development Fy19
Amount: $16,910

152

Transfer To:
55011 Phoenix Military Academy High School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
53305 Instructional Materials (Non-Digital)
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
532011 Accelerated Stem Program Of Study And Leadership
Development Fy19

 19-1211-EX1
697.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Lillian R. Nicholson STEM Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-427-00-01 To Project# 2019-22181-MEP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22181 Lillian R. Nicholson STEM Academy
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $17,044

698.

Transfer from Lillian R. Nicholson STEM Academy to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2019-22181-MEP To Award# 2020-427-00-01 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
22181 Lillian R. Nicholson STEM Academy
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Amount: $17,044

699.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Lillian R. Nicholson STEM Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-427-00-01 To Project# 2019-22181-MEP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22181 Lillian R. Nicholson STEM Academy
427 CIP Series 2016B
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $17,044

700.

Transfer from YCCS-Dr. Pedro Albizu Campos Puerto Rican HS to Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS)
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for charter reimbursement request approved through FY19 IL-Empower grant.

Transfer From:
66615 YCCS-Dr. Pedro Albizu Campos Puerto Rican HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
66101 Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS)
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Amount: $17,091

701.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Academy for Global Citizenship Charter School
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition
Amount: $17,160

153

Transfer To:
63011 Academy for Global Citizenship Charter School
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

 19-1211-EX1
702.

Transfer from Arts to Mary Gage Peterson Elementary School
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for partnership with MCMI for mathematics coaching and core technology needs.

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
230010 Administrative Support
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24941 Mary Gage Peterson Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
230010 Administrative Support
000901 Other Gen Ed Funded Programs

Amount: $17,227

703.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to West Ridge Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-12 To Project# 2020-22381-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253515 Energy
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22381 West Ridge Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56304 Capitalized Software
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $17,252

704.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to West Ridge Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-12 To Project# 2020-22381-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253515 Energy
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22381 West Ridge Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $17,252

705.

Transfer from West Ridge Elementary School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2020-22381-BAS To Award# 2020-488-00-12 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
22381 West Ridge Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56304 Capitalized Software
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253515 Energy
000000 Default Value

Amount: $17,252

706.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Marquette Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-10 To Project# 2020-24341-OGC-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009506 Asset Management Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24341 Marquette Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $17,300

154

 19-1211-EX1
707.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to George Leland Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-26391-ODR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26391 George Leland Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $17,350

708.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Acero Charter Schools - Octavio Paz Campus
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66131 Acero Charter Schools - Octavio Paz Campus
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $17,368

709.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Acero Charter Schools - Victoria Soto
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66137 Acero Charter Schools - Victoria Soto
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $17,368

710.

Transfer from School Safety and Security Office to School Safety and Security Office
Rationale:

Transfer to cover uniforms, supplies for Photo ID and storage supplies, and security training material per LLopez request

Transfer From:
10610 School Safety and Security Office
210 Workers' & Unemployment Compensation/Tort
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
254605 School Safety Services
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
10610 School Safety and Security Office
210 Workers' & Unemployment Compensation/Tort
53405 Commodities - Supplies
254605 School Safety Services
000000 Default Value

Amount: $17,389

711.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John J Audubon Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-02 To Project# 2019-22091-MCR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22091 John J Audubon Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56302 Capitalized Equipment
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $17,512

155

 19-1211-EX1
712.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Horizon Science Academy Southwest Chicago Charter
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
63181 Horizon Science Academy Southwest Chicago Charter
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $17,576

713.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Friedrich W von Steuben Metropolitan Science HS
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-09 To Project# 2020-47081-ADM ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251001 Operations - Support Services
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
47081 Friedrich W von Steuben Metropolitan Science HS
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
009522 Cip Management
000000 Default Value

Amount: $17,636

714.

Transfer from CICS - Washington Park to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66181 CICS - Washington Park
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $17,637

715.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Charles W Earle Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-06 To Project# 2020-23031-MCR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23031 Charles W Earle Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $17,702

716.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Johann W von Goethe Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-23341-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23341 Johann W von Goethe Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $17,780

156

 19-1211-EX1
717.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William B Ogden Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-04 To Project# 2020-24731-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24731 William B Ogden Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $17,890

718.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Acero Charter Schools - Rufino Tamayo
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66391 Acero Charter Schools - Rufino Tamayo
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $17,992

719.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Countee Cullen Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-06 To Project# 2020-23891-MCR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23891 Countee Cullen Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $17,999

720.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to ECIA Projects
Rationale:

Transfer to open new tutoring bucket at Mather- benefits.

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
12693 ECIA Projects
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
52140 Career Service Salaries - Other
180040 English Language Learner (Ell/Lep) Programs
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $18,000

721.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Phillip Murray Elementary Language Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-10 To Project# 2020-29221-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009506 Asset Management Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29221 Phillip Murray Elementary Language Academy
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $18,100

157

 19-1211-EX1
722.

Transfer from YCCS-Youth Connection Leadership Acad HS to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66629 YCCS-Youth Connection Leadership Acad HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $18,270

723.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Federico Garcia Lorca Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-22341-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22341 Federico Garcia Lorca Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $18,340

724.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Mary E McDowell Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-26421-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26421 Mary E McDowell Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $18,480

725.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to George M Pullman Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2020-25041-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25041 George M Pullman Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $18,495

726.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Martha Ruggles Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-06 To Project# 2020-25181-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25181 Martha Ruggles Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $18,610

158

 19-1211-EX1
727.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Talent Office
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to clear negative.

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Transfer To:
11010 Talent Office
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
542133 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity School (Dlos)
Fy19

Amount: $18,663

728.

Transfer from Cyrus H McCormick Elementary School to Citywide Student Support and Engagement
Rationale:

Aligning to approved grant budget

Transfer From:
24431 Cyrus H McCormick Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000044 Ctu Sustainable Schools Initiative

Transfer To:
10875 Citywide Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
390011 Community School Initiative
000044 Ctu Sustainable Schools Initiative

Amount: $18,668

729.

Transfer from YCCS-Latino Youth Alternative HS to Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS)
Rationale:

Transfer of funds required for charter reimbursement requests approved through the FY19 IL-Empower grant.

Transfer From:
66619 YCCS-Latino Youth Alternative HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
66101 Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS)
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Amount: $18,743

730.

Transfer from YCCS-Latino Youth Alternative HS to Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS)
Rationale:

Transfer of funds required for charter reimbursement requests approved through the FY19 IL-Empower grant.

Transfer From:
66619 YCCS-Latino Youth Alternative HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
66101 Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS)
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Amount: $18,745

159

 19-1211-EX1
731.

Transfer from YCCS-Progressive Leadership Academy to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66613 YCCS-Progressive Leadership Academy
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $18,776

732.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John C Dore Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2020-23001-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23001 John C Dore Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $18,980

733.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IV programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
358 Title IV
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
440047 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
358 Title IV
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
440047 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Amount: $19,000

734.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Noble Mansueto High School
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66579 Noble Mansueto High School
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $19,240

735.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Charles P Caldwell Academy of Math & Science ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-10 To Project# 2020-22511-NPG-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009506 Asset Management Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22511 Charles P Caldwell Academy of Math & Science ES
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $19,500

160

 19-1211-EX1
736.

Transfer from Talent Office to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
11010 Talent Office
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54205 Travel Expense
262005 Educator Effectiveness
542133 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity School (Dlos)
Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $19,642

737.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Jane Addams Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-485-00-13 To Project# 2020-22021-ROF ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22021 Jane Addams Elementary School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $19,716

738.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Marcus Moziah Garvey Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-485-00-13 To Project# 2020-24951-ROF ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24951 Marcus Moziah Garvey Elementary School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $19,716

739.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Francis M McKay Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-485-00-13 To Project# 2020-24451-ROF ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24451 Francis M McKay Elementary School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $19,716

161

 19-1211-EX1
740.

Transfer from Chief Education Office to Network 16
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for service from CPS Vendor Greg Jones.

Transfer From:
10816 Chief Education Office
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
232102 Executive Administration
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
02661 Network 16
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
221080 Aio - Improvement Of Instruction
000000 Default Value

Amount: $19,749

741.

Transfer from Computer Science to Computer Science
Rationale:

Transfer to spend down grant - Services

Transfer From:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
210052 Computer Science For All Fy19

Transfer To:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
210052 Computer Science For All Fy19

Amount: $19,800

742.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Austin College and Career Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-02 To Project# 2019-46621-SCI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46621 Austin College and Career Academy High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $19,842

743.

Transfer from Gage Park High School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
46141 Gage Park High School
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
55005 Property - Equipment
211001 Attendance & Social Work
424086 Sig - Gage Park (Cohort 6) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $19,919

744.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Charles Allen Prosser Career Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-07 To Project# 2020-53041-ROF ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253539 Developer Services And Permitting
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
53041 Charles Allen Prosser Career Academy High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $20,000

162

 19-1211-EX1
745.

Transfer from Computer Science to Computer Science
Rationale:

Correcting misplaced funds back to miscellaneous line

Transfer From:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51300 Regular Position Pointer
221117 Computer Education
210052 Computer Science For All Fy19

Transfer To:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
221117 Computer Education
210052 Computer Science For All Fy19

Amount: $20,000

746.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to James Weldon Johnson Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-04 To Project# 2018-26231-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26231 James Weldon Johnson Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $20,000

747.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Marie Sklodowska Curie Metropolitan High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-486-00-01 To Project# 2017-53101-SIP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253544 Child Award
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
53101 Marie Sklodowska Curie Metropolitan High School
486 CIT Bond Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $20,000

748.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Wilma Rudolph Elementary Learning Center
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-07 To Project# 2020-30121-MCR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253539 Developer Services And Permitting
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
30121 Wilma Rudolph Elementary Learning Center
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $20,000

749.

Transfer from Galileo Math & Science Scholastic Academy ES to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

Sweeping Funds for Fund 124 Reimbursable Funds

Transfer From:
29141 Galileo Math & Science Scholastic Academy ES
124 School Special Income Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
002239 Internal Accounts Book Transfers
Amount: $20,000

163

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600005 Special Income Fund 124 - Contingency
002239 Internal Accounts Book Transfers

 19-1211-EX1
750.

Transfer from Arts to Arts
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for substitute and teacher extended day buckets

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
336 NCLB Title V Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
500026 Project Cultivate Fy20

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
336 NCLB Title V Fund
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
500026 Project Cultivate Fy20

Amount: $20,000

751.

Transfer from Computer Science to Computer Science
Rationale:

transfer to open up requested sub bucket and clear negative.

Transfer From:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
210052 Computer Science For All Fy19

Transfer To:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
210052 Computer Science For All Fy19

Amount: $20,006

752.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) programs
Rationale:

Transfer funding to clear negative.

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324
57915
600002
041008

Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
Contingency For Project Expansion
Contingency For Grant Expansion

Transfer To:
10871 Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM)
programs
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
500311 Magnet Schools Assistance Program (Cpsmsap) Fy20

Amount: $20,064

753.

Transfer from Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) programs to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
10871 Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM)
programs
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
500309 Magnet Schools Assistance Program (Cpsmsap)
Fy18-19
Amount: $20,072

164

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324
57915
600002
041008

Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
Contingency For Project Expansion
Contingency For Grant Expansion

 19-1211-EX1
754.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to ASPIRA Business and Finance
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66255 ASPIRA Business and Finance
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $20,280

755.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Erie Elementary Charter School
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66331 Erie Elementary Charter School
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $20,384

756.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William H Prescott Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2018-488-00-10 To Project# 2019-25021-MCR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25021 William H Prescott Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $20,455

757.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Helge A Haugan Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-04 To Project# 2020-23591-OBI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23591 Helge A Haugan Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $20,490

758.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Catalyst - Maria Charter School
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition
Amount: $20,592

165

Transfer To:
66433 Catalyst - Maria Charter School
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

 19-1211-EX1
759.

Transfer from Gage Park High School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
46141 Gage Park High School
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
53405 Commodities - Supplies
119010 Other Instructional Programs
424086 Sig - Gage Park (Cohort 6) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $20,837

760.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Hawthorne Elementary Scholastic Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-427-00-01 To Project# 2018-29131-NPL ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29131 Hawthorne Elementary Scholastic Academy
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
009522 Cip Management
000000 Default Value

Amount: $21,000

761.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Theodore Roosevelt High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-12 To Project# 2020-46271-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253515 Energy
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46271 Theodore Roosevelt High School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $21,000

762.

Transfer from Diverse Learner Supports & Services to Diverse Learner Supports & Services
Rationale:

DEPT RQST - For Car Fare Reimbursement

Transfer From:
11610 Diverse Learner Supports & Services
114 Special Education Fund
54105 Services: Non-technical/Laborer
266411 Technology Acquisitions Leasing
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
11610 Diverse Learner Supports & Services
114 Special Education Fund
54215 Car Fare
230010 Administrative Support
000000 Default Value

Amount: $21,000

166

 19-1211-EX1
763.

Transfer from Talent Office to Teacher Leader Development and Innovation
Rationale:

Per Yasmin Chaudhury. Please open new DLOS specialist position in T & L unit.

Transfer From:
11010 Talent Office
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
262005 Educator Effectiveness
542134 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity School (Dlos)
Fy20

Transfer To:
11551 Teacher Leader Development and Innovation
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
542134 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity School (Dlos)
Fy20

Amount: $21,000

764.

Transfer from Teacher Leader Development and Innovation to Talent Office
Rationale:

No new FTE being created.

Transfer From:
11551 Teacher Leader Development and Innovation
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
542134 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity School (Dlos)
Fy20

Transfer To:
11010 Talent Office
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
262005 Educator Effectiveness
542134 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity School (Dlos)
Fy20

Amount: $21,000

765.

Transfer from William Jones College Preparatory High School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

Sweeping Funds for Fund 124 Reimbursable Funds

Transfer From:
47021 William Jones College Preparatory High School
124 School Special Income Fund
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
002239 Internal Accounts Book Transfers

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600005 Special Income Fund 124 - Contingency
002239 Internal Accounts Book Transfers

Amount: $21,037

766.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Magnet, Gifted and IB Programs
Rationale:

Transfer funding to clear negative.

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion
Amount: $21,076

167

Transfer To:
10845 Magnet, Gifted and IB Programs
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
500311 Magnet Schools Assistance Program (Cpsmsap) Fy20

 19-1211-EX1
767.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Charles S Deneen Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-423-00-01 To Project# 2020-22931-ROF ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
423 Series 2020 CIT
56310 Capitalized Construction
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22931 Charles S Deneen Elementary School
423 Series 2020 CIT
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Amount: $21,348

768.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Henry Clay Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-485-00-13 To Project# 2020-22731-ROF ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22731 Henry Clay Elementary School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Amount: $21,348

769.

Transfer from Charles S Deneen Elementary School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2020-22931-ROF To Award# 2020-423-00-01 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
22931 Charles S Deneen Elementary School
423 Series 2020 CIT
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
423 Series 2020 CIT
56310 Capitalized Construction
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Amount: $21,348

770.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Charles S Deneen Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-06 To Project# 2020-22931-ROF ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22931 Charles S Deneen Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Amount: $21,348

771.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Charles Gates Dawes Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-03 To Project# 2020-22901-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22901 Charles Gates Dawes Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $21,500

168

 19-1211-EX1
772.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Teacher Leader Development and Innovation
Rationale:

Transfer funding to clear negative.

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Transfer To:
11551 Teacher Leader Development and Innovation
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
542134 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity School (Dlos)
Fy20

Amount: $21,520

773.

Transfer from YCCS-CCA Academy HS to Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS)
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for charter reimbursement request approved through FY19 IL-Empower grant.

Transfer From:
66612 YCCS-CCA Academy HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433140 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 10) Fy19

Transfer To:
66101 Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS)
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433140 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 10) Fy19

Amount: $21,732

774.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Richard T Crane Medical Preparatory HS
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-46641-ODR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46641 Richard T Crane Medical Preparatory HS
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $21,868

775.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Magnet, Gifted and IB Programs
Rationale:

Transfer funding to clear negative.

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion
Amount: $22,000

169

Transfer To:
10845 Magnet, Gifted and IB Programs
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
500311 Magnet Schools Assistance Program (Cpsmsap) Fy20

 19-1211-EX1
776.

Transfer from Magnet, Gifted and IB Programs to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
10845 Magnet, Gifted and IB Programs
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
500309 Magnet Schools Assistance Program (Cpsmsap)
Fy18-19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $22,000

777.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Independent Schools Of Chicago
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IV programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
358 Title IV
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
440047 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
70140 Independent Schools Of Chicago
358 Title IV
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
228950 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Independent)
440047 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Amount: $22,200

778.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Instituto Health Sciences Career Academy
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
63131 Instituto Health Sciences Career Academy
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $22,256

779.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Michele Clark Academic Prep Magnet High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-41051-OPI-2 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
41051 Michele Clark Academic Prep Magnet High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $22,340

170

 19-1211-EX1
780.

Transfer from YCCS-Latino Youth Alternative HS to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66619 YCCS-Latino Youth Alternative HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $22,350

781.

Transfer from Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS) to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66101 Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS)
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433140 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 10) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $22,501

782.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Myra Bradwell Communications Arts & Sciences ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-12 To Project# 2020-22291-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253515 Energy
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22291 Myra Bradwell Communications Arts & Sciences ES
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $22,800

783.

Transfer from Teacher Leader Development and Innovation to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
11551 Teacher Leader Development and Innovation
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
542133 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity School (Dlos)
Fy19
Amount: $22,937

171

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

 19-1211-EX1
784.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Francis M McKay Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-10 To Project# 2020-24451-OHI-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009506 Asset Management Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24451 Francis M McKay Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $22,985

785.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Namaste Charter School
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66271 Namaste Charter School
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $23,192

786.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Charles P Caldwell Academy of Math & Science ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-485-00-13 To Project# 2020-22511-MCR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22511 Charles P Caldwell Academy of Math & Science ES
485 CIT PayGo Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Amount: $23,412

787.

Transfer from YCCS-Dr. Pedro Albizu Campos Puerto Rican HS to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66615 YCCS-Dr. Pedro Albizu Campos Puerto Rican HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
211001 Attendance & Social Work
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $23,748

788.

Transfer from YCCS-Youth Connection Leadership Acad HS to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66629 YCCS-Youth Connection Leadership Acad HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
211001 Attendance & Social Work
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19
Amount: $23,760

172

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

 19-1211-EX1
789.

Transfer from Donald Morrill Math & Science Elementary School to Citywide Student Support and Engagement
Rationale:

Aligning to approved grant budget

Transfer From:
24571 Donald Morrill Math & Science Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000044 Ctu Sustainable Schools Initiative

Transfer To:
10875 Citywide Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
390011 Community School Initiative
000044 Ctu Sustainable Schools Initiative

Amount: $23,902

790.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Kate S Kellogg Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-06 To Project# 2020-23971-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23971 Kate S Kellogg Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $23,920

791.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Augustus H Burley Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-06 To Project# 2019-22421-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22421 Augustus H Burley Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $24,480

792.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Thomas A Hendricks Elementary Community Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-10 To Project# 2020-31121-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009506 Asset Management Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
31121 Thomas A Hendricks Elementary Community Academy
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $24,567

793.

Transfer from YCCS- Innovations HS of Arts Integration to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66617 YCCS- Innovations HS of Arts Integration
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19
Amount: $24,621

173

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

 19-1211-EX1
794.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Hope College Preparatory High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-49091-OHI-2 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
49091 Hope College Preparatory High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $24,695

795.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Acero Charter Schools - Roberto Clemente
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66133 Acero Charter Schools - Roberto Clemente
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $24,856

796.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Daniel C Beard Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-485-00-13 To Project# 2020-30051-MCR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
30051 Daniel C Beard Elementary School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $24,934

797.

Transfer from Early College and Career - City Wide to Early College and Career - City Wide
Rationale:

To support elementary outreach support for CTE per Tish McGee

Transfer From:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
322024 Career & Technical Educ. Improvement Grant (Ctei)
Fy20
Amount: $25,000

174

Transfer To:
13727 Early College and Career - City Wide
369 Title I - School Improvement Carl Perkins
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
212040 Elementary Career Development
322024 Career & Technical Educ. Improvement Grant (Ctei)
Fy20

 19-1211-EX1
798.

Transfer from YCCS-Dr. Pedro Albizu Campos Puerto Rican HS to Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS)
Rationale:

Transfer of funds required for charter reimbursement requests approved through the FY19 IL-Empower grant.

Transfer From:
66615 YCCS-Dr. Pedro Albizu Campos Puerto Rican HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
66101 Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS)
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Amount: $25,000

799.

Transfer from Social Science & Civic Engagement to Social Science & Civic Engagement
Rationale:

Transfer of funds to open stipend and substitute buckets

Transfer From:
10813 Social Science & Civic Engagement
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
390003 Service Learning
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
10813 Social Science & Civic Engagement
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $25,000

800.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Jacob Beidler Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-485-00-10 To Project# 2020-22211-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
144605 Brick Masonry
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22211 Jacob Beidler Elementary School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $25,144

801.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Rowe Elementary Charter School
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66571 Rowe Elementary Charter School
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $25,376

802.

Transfer from Assessment to Assessment
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Assessment Specialist

Transfer From:
11210 Assessment
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
223013 Assessments/Standards
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
11210 Assessment
115 General Education Fund
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $25,500

175

 19-1211-EX1
803.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Acero Charter Schools - Carlos Fuentes
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66393 Acero Charter Schools - Carlos Fuentes
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $25,584

804.

Transfer from Richard Yates Elementary School to Citywide Student Support and Engagement
Rationale:

Aligning to approved grant budget

Transfer From:
25911 Richard Yates Elementary School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000044 Ctu Sustainable Schools Initiative

Transfer To:
10875 Citywide Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
390011 Community School Initiative
000044 Ctu Sustainable Schools Initiative

Amount: $25,586

805.

Transfer from YCCS-Sullivan House Alternative HS to Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS)
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for charter reimbursement request approved through FY19 IL-Empower grant.

Transfer From:
66623 YCCS-Sullivan House Alternative HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
66101 Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS)
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Amount: $25,627

806.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to CICS - West Belden
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66221 CICS - West Belden
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $25,688

807.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Lyman A Budlong Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-485-00-14 To Project# 2020-22391-MEP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009559 Boiler/Mechanical
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22391 Lyman A Budlong Elementary School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $25,768

176

 19-1211-EX1
808.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Computer Science
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to clear negative.

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Transfer To:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
548024 Track 2 Cs10k: Accelerate Ecs4all Fy19

Amount: $26,028

809.

Transfer from Magnet, Gifted and IB Programs to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
10845 Magnet, Gifted and IB Programs
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
500309 Magnet Schools Assistance Program (Cpsmsap)
Fy18-19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $26,513

810.

Transfer from YCCS-Latino Youth Alternative HS to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66619 YCCS-Latino Youth Alternative HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
211001 Attendance & Social Work
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $26,694

811.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Stephen F Gale Elementary Community Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-04 To Project# 2020-31081-OEL ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
31081 Stephen F Gale Elementary Community Academy
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $27,317

177

 19-1211-EX1
812.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Talent Office
Rationale:

Transfer funding to the Talent Office for the FY20 Teacher Quality Leadership Grant.

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Transfer To:
11010 Talent Office
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
493522 Teacher Quality Leadership Grant Fy20

Amount: $27,505

813.

Transfer from Arts to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

Expired grant - transfer to contingency.

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
336 NCLB Title V Fund
54505 Seminar, Fees, Subscriptions, Professional
Memberships
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
500025 Project Cultivate Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
336 NCLB Title V Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002
041008

Contingency For Project Expansion
Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $28,100

814.

Transfer from YCCS-Jane Addams Alternative HS to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66618 YCCS-Jane Addams Alternative HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $28,421

815.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Frank W Reilly Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-485-00-13 To Project# 2020-25101-ROF ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25101 Frank W Reilly Elementary School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Amount: $28,781

178

 19-1211-EX1
816.

Transfer from Arts to Arts
Rationale:

Transfer funding to clear negative.

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
336 NCLB Title V Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
500026 Project Cultivate Fy20

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
336 NCLB Title V Fund
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
500026 Project Cultivate Fy20

Amount: $28,966

817.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Hiram H Belding Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-01 To Project# 2019-22221-ADD ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22221 Hiram H Belding Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56302 Capitalized Equipment
009531 Additions
000000 Default Value

Amount: $29,036

818.

Transfer from Social Science & Civic Engagement to Social Science & Civic Engagement
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for bucket to replace 553428

Transfer From:
10813 Social Science & Civic Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
390003 Service Learning
409427 Calumet Is My Back Yard Cimby 19-20

Transfer To:
10813 Social Science & Civic Engagement
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
409427 Calumet Is My Back Yard Cimby 19-20

Amount: $29,200

819.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to James Wadsworth Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-06 To Project# 2020-25711-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25711 James Wadsworth Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $29,220

820.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John D Shoop Math-Science Technical Academy ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-06 To Project# 2020-25381-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25381 John D Shoop Math-Science Technical Academy ES
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $29,220

179

 19-1211-EX1
821.

Transfer from YCCS-Latino Youth Alternative HS to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66619 YCCS-Latino Youth Alternative HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $29,657

822.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Social and Emotional Learning - City Wide
Rationale:

Transfer funding to Social and Emotional Learning - City Wide for the FY20 Teams, Interventions, Evaluations, and Resources for
Supportive Schools (TIERSS)

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
358 Title IV
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Transfer To:
10898 Social and Emotional Learning - City Wide
358 Title IV
53405 Commodities - Supplies
211010 Tier I Services
509192 Teams, Interventions, Evaluations, And Resources For
Supportive Schools (Tierss)

Amount: $29,685

823.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John F Eberhart Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-427-00-01 To Project# 2019-23041-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23041 John F Eberhart Elementary School
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $29,942

824.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Office of Student Health & Wellness
Rationale:

Transfer funding to Office of Student Health & Wellness for the FY20 UIC Whole Child program.

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion
Amount: $30,000

180

Transfer To:
14050 Office of Student Health & Wellness
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
580290 Uic Whole Child Fy20

 19-1211-EX1
825.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Edward E. Sadlowski Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-12 To Project# 2020-22631-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253515 Energy
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22631 Edward E. Sadlowski Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $30,400

826.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Ella Flagg Young Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-04 To Project# 2019-25921-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25921 Ella Flagg Young Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $31,300

827.

Transfer from Network 6 to Network Support
Rationale:

Transferring funds from closing N6 Deputy Position per ONS and Budget Leadership - opening a new position in ONS using N6
Deputy position costs

Transfer From:
02461 Network 6
115 General Education Fund
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
11110 Network Support
115 General Education Fund
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $31,847

828.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Daniel Boone Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-04 To Project# 2020-22271-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009508 Ws O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22271 Daniel Boone Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $31,869

181

 19-1211-EX1
829.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Polaris Charter Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-10 To Project# 2020-67081-OGC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009506 Asset Management Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
67081 Polaris Charter Academy
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009514 Contingencies
000000 Default Value

Amount: $31,870

830.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Cheder Lubavitch
Rationale:

Transfer funds for approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69593 Cheder Lubavitch
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
300013 Non-Public Professional Development
430239 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Jewish

Amount: $31,960

831.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Carter G Woodson North School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-12 To Project# 2020-26501-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253515 Energy
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26501 Carter G Woodson North School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $32,100

832.

Transfer from YCCS- McKinley Lakeside Leadership HS to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66107 YCCS- McKinley Lakeside Leadership HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
211001 Attendance & Social Work
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $32,250

833.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Ferdinand Peck Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-12 To Project# 2020-24871-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253515 Energy
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24871 Ferdinand Peck Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $32,266

182

 19-1211-EX1
834.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Lake View High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-01 To Project# 2020-46211-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46211 Lake View High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $32,384

835.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Associated Talmud Torah Of
Rationale:

Chicago

Transfer funds for approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69530 Associated Talmud Torah Of Chicago
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
300013 Non-Public Professional Development
430239 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Jewish

Amount: $33,000

836.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Emmett Louis Till Math and Science Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-06 To Project# 2020-24441-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24441 Emmett Louis Till Math and Science Academy
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $33,500

837.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Michele Clark Academic Prep Magnet High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-02 To Project# 2019-41051-SCI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
41051 Michele Clark Academic Prep Magnet High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $34,153

183

 19-1211-EX1
838.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Real Estate
Rationale:

FY20 Cell Tower - Replacement Fee - AT&T $5,000 Perez, Receipt # 61436, Sprint $25,000 - $5K per site (Bell Receipt # 61405,
Harlan Receipt # 61426, Lane Tech Receipt # 61406, Park Manor Receipt # 61418, Schubert Receipt # 61405), T-Mobile $5,000
Lewis Receipt # 61480

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600005 Special Income Fund 124 - Contingency
150900 Grants - Supplemental

Transfer To:
11910 Real Estate
124 School Special Income Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253201 Cell Tower Installation Program
000388 Cellular Revenue

Amount: $35,000

839.

Transfer from Nutrition Support Services - City Wide to Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
Rationale:

Transferring funds to open FY20 PO for Davis Bancorp - armored car services for cafeterias.

Transfer From:
12050 Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
312 Lunchroom Fund
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12050 Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
312 Lunchroom Fund
54105 Services: Non-technical/Laborer
256009 Food Service
000000 Default Value

Amount: $35,000

840.

Transfer from Teaching and Learning Office to Teaching and Learning Office
Rationale:

Bucket for facilitator summit.

Transfer From:
10810 Teaching and Learning Office
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
53405 Commodities - Supplies
221234 Professional Develop/Curriculum Develp
494070 Title Iia - Teacher Quality

Transfer To:
10810 Teaching and Learning Office
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
494070 Title Iia - Teacher Quality

Amount: $35,000

841.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Robert L Grimes Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-485-00-10 To Project# 2018-23461-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
144605 Brick Masonry
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23461 Robert L Grimes Elementary School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $35,024

184

 19-1211-EX1
842.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Cheder Lubavitch Hebrew School
Rationale:

Transfer funds for approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69099 Cheder Lubavitch Hebrew School
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
300013 Non-Public Professional Development
430239 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Jewish

Amount: $35,275

843.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Social and Emotional Learning - City Wide
Rationale:

Transfer funding to Social and Emotional Learning - City Wide for the FY20 Teams, Interventions, Evaluations, and Resources for
Supportive Schools (TIERSS)

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
358 Title IV
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Transfer To:
10898 Social and Emotional Learning - City Wide
358 Title IV
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
509192 Teams, Interventions, Evaluations, And Resources For
Supportive Schools (Tierss)

Amount: $35,640

844.

Transfer from YCCS- Innovations HS of Arts Integration to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66617 YCCS- Innovations HS of Arts Integration
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
211001 Attendance & Social Work
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $36,000

845.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William E B Dubois Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-06 To Project# 2020-26601-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26601 William E B Dubois Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $36,500

185

 19-1211-EX1
846.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to George Washington Carver Primary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-06 To Project# 2020-22621-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22621 George Washington Carver Primary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $37,040

847.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Carroll-Rosenwald Specialty Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-06 To Project# 2020-22571-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22571 Carroll-Rosenwald Specialty Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $37,810

848.

Transfer from Arts to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

Expired grant - transfer to contingency.

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
336 NCLB Title V Fund
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
500025 Project Cultivate Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
336 NCLB Title V Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $38,547

849.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to TEAM Englewood Community Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-49161-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
49161 TEAM Englewood Community Academy High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $39,350

850.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Bernhard Moos Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-04 To Project# 2019-24551-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24551 Bernhard Moos Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $39,700

186

 19-1211-EX1
851.

Transfer from Bernhard Moos Elementary School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2019-24551-BAS To Award# 2019-488-00-04 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
24551 Bernhard Moos Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56304 Capitalized Software
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $39,700

852.

Transfer from CICS - Chicago Quest North to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66651 CICS - Chicago Quest North
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433140 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 10) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $39,877

853.

Transfer from Nutrition Support Services - City Wide to Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
Rationale:

Transfer funds to purchase portable hand sinks for 15 schools.

Transfer From:
12050 Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
312 Lunchroom Fund
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12050 Nutrition Support Services - City Wide
312 Lunchroom Fund
55005 Property - Equipment
256009 Food Service
000000 Default Value

Amount: $40,000

854.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to TEAM Englewood Community Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-06 To Project# 2020-49161-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
49161 TEAM Englewood Community Academy High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $40,040

855.

Transfer from Gage Park High School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
46141 Gage Park High School
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
53307 Commodities: Software Licenses (Instructional)
119010 Other Instructional Programs
424086 Sig - Gage Park (Cohort 6) Fy19
Amount: $40,534

187

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

 19-1211-EX1
856.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to EPIC Academy Charter High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-06 To Project# 2020-63081-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
63081 EPIC Academy Charter High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $41,810

857.

Transfer from Ralph H Metcalfe Elementary Community Academy to Citywide Student Support and Engagement
Rationale:

Aligning to approved grant budget

Transfer From:
31061 Ralph H Metcalfe Elementary Community Academy
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000044 Ctu Sustainable Schools Initiative

Transfer To:
10875 Citywide Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
390011 Community School Initiative
000044 Ctu Sustainable Schools Initiative

Amount: $41,903

858.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Christopher Columbus Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-01 To Project# 2019-22791-MCR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22791 Christopher Columbus Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $42,658

859.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Barbara Vick Early Childhood & Family Center
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-06 To Project# 2020-26731-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26731 Barbara Vick Early Childhood & Family Center
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $43,390

860.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Harold Washington Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-436-00-03 To Project# 2020-24921-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253544 Child Award
188814 Space To Grow-Iga Water Reclamation District
Amount: $43,458

188

Transfer To:
24921 Harold Washington Elementary School
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
320008 Playgrounds And Stadia
188814 Space To Grow-Iga Water Reclamation District

 19-1211-EX1
861.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Harold Washington Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-436-00-04 To Project# 2020-24921-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253544 Child Award
188815 Space To Grow-Chgo Dept. Of Water

Transfer To:
24921 Harold Washington Elementary School
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
320008 Playgrounds And Stadia
188815 Space To Grow-Chgo Dept. Of Water

Amount: $43,458

862.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Harold Washington Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-13 To Project# 2020-24921-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
320008 Playgrounds And Stadia
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24921 Harold Washington Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
320008 Playgrounds And Stadia
000000 Default Value

Amount: $43,458

863.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Jesse Sherwood Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-436-00-03 To Project# 2020-25351-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253544 Child Award
188814 Space To Grow-Iga Water Reclamation District

Transfer To:
25351 Jesse Sherwood Elementary School
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253511 Campus Parks
188814 Space To Grow-Iga Water Reclamation District

Amount: $43,458

864.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Jesse Sherwood Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-436-00-04 To Project# 2020-25351-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253544 Child Award
188815 Space To Grow-Chgo Dept. Of Water

Transfer To:
25351 Jesse Sherwood Elementary School
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253511 Campus Parks
188815 Space To Grow-Chgo Dept. Of Water

Amount: $43,458

865.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Jesse Sherwood Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-13 To Project# 2020-25351-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
320008 Playgrounds And Stadia
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25351 Jesse Sherwood Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253511 Campus Parks
000000 Default Value

Amount: $43,458

189

 19-1211-EX1
866.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John Barry Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-436-00-03 To Project# 2020-22141-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253544 Child Award
188814 Space To Grow-Iga Water Reclamation District

Transfer To:
22141 John Barry Elementary School
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253511 Campus Parks
188814 Space To Grow-Iga Water Reclamation District

Amount: $43,458

867.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John Barry Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-436-00-04 To Project# 2020-22141-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253544 Child Award
188815 Space To Grow-Chgo Dept. Of Water

Transfer To:
22141 John Barry Elementary School
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253511 Campus Parks
188815 Space To Grow-Chgo Dept. Of Water

Amount: $43,458

868.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John Barry Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-13 To Project# 2020-22141-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
320008 Playgrounds And Stadia
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22141 John Barry Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253511 Campus Parks
000000 Default Value

Amount: $43,458

869.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Genevieve Melody Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-436-00-03 To Project# 2020-26351-MCR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253544 Child Award
188814 Space To Grow-Iga Water Reclamation District

Transfer To:
26351 Genevieve Melody Elementary School
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
188814 Space To Grow-Iga Water Reclamation District

Amount: $43,458

870.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Genevieve Melody Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-436-00-04 To Project# 2020-26351-MCR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253544 Child Award
188815 Space To Grow-Chgo Dept. Of Water

Transfer To:
26351 Genevieve Melody Elementary School
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
188815 Space To Grow-Chgo Dept. Of Water

Amount: $43,458

190

 19-1211-EX1
871.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Genevieve Melody Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-13 To Project# 2020-26351-MCR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
320008 Playgrounds And Stadia
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26351 Genevieve Melody Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $43,458

872.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Abraham Lincoln Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-05 To Project# 2020-24191-OEI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009507 N O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24191 Abraham Lincoln Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $43,500

873.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Dewey Elementary Academy of Fine Arts
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-22951-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22951 Dewey Elementary Academy of Fine Arts
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $43,780

874.

Transfer from Arts to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

Expired grant - transfer to contingency.

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
336 NCLB Title V Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
500025 Project Cultivate Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
336 NCLB Title V Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $44,132

875.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds for approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic
Amount: $44,452

191

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
217662 Iasa-Nonpublic Summer
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

 19-1211-EX1
876.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IIA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494071 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
353 Title II - Teacher Quality
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
494071 Title Iia - Archdiocese Of Chgo. Suppl. Servc.

Amount: $45,000

877.

Transfer from Computer Science to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
221117 Computer Education
500012 Chicago Alliance For Equity In Computer Science
(Cafe-Cs) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $45,000

878.

Transfer from Claremont Academy Elementary School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
31301 Claremont Academy Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
500309 Magnet Schools Assistance Program (Cpsmsap)
Fy18-19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $45,140

879.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Noble - John and Eunice Johnson College Prep
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-06 To Project# 2020-66148-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
66148 Noble - John and Eunice Johnson College Prep
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $45,810

192

 19-1211-EX1
880.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Acero Charter Schools - Officer Donald J. Marquez
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66397 Acero Charter Schools - Officer Donald J. Marquez
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $46,000

881.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Acero Charter Schools - PFC Omar E. Torres
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66396 Acero Charter Schools - PFC Omar E. Torres
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $46,000

882.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Acero Charter Schools - Brighton Park
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66602 Acero Charter Schools - Brighton Park
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $46,000

883.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Acero Charter Schools - Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66134 Acero Charter Schools - Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $46,000

884.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Acero Charter Schools - SPC Daniel Zizumbo
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition
Amount: $46,000

193

Transfer To:
66395 Acero Charter Schools - SPC Daniel Zizumbo
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

 19-1211-EX1
885.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Acero Charter Schools - Jovita Idar
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66399 Acero Charter Schools - Jovita Idar
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $46,000

886.

Transfer from Language & Cultural Education - City Wide to Acero Charter Schools - Sandra Cisneros
Rationale:

One-time Budget Transfer Charter Payments

Transfer From:
11540 Language & Cultural Education - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Transfer To:
66398 Acero Charter Schools - Sandra Cisneros
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $46,000

887.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Camelot Excel - Englewood HS
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-485-00-10 To Project# 2020-63142-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
144605 Brick Masonry
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
63142 Camelot Excel - Englewood HS
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $46,179

888.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Magnet, Gifted and IB Programs
Rationale:

Transfer funding to clear negative.

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Transfer To:
10845 Magnet, Gifted and IB Programs
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
500311 Magnet Schools Assistance Program (Cpsmsap) Fy20

Amount: $46,750

889.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Hyde Park Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-12 To Project# 2020-46171-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253515 Energy
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46171 Hyde Park Academy High School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $46,800

194

 19-1211-EX1
890.

Transfer from Joseph Jungman Elementary School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
23961 Joseph Jungman Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
500309 Magnet Schools Assistance Program (Cpsmsap)
Fy18-19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $47,508

891.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Frank W Reilly Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-427-00-01 To Project# 2019-25101-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25101 Frank W Reilly Elementary School
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $48,091

892.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Independent Schools Of Chicago
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools Title IV programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
358 Title IV
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
228958 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Catholic)
440047 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
70140 Independent Schools Of Chicago
358 Title IV
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
228950 Federal - Nonpublic Inst (Independent)
440047 Title Iv, Part A - Nonpublic

Amount: $49,300

893.

Transfer from Information & Technology Services to Information & Technology Services
Rationale:

Tridium N4 ENT Server SW Lic - Quote # KXGH493 & KXGH500

Transfer From:
12510 Information & Technology Services
115 General Education Fund
54105 Services: Non-technical/Laborer
266203 Technical Support
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12510 Information & Technology Services
115 General Education Fund
53306 Commodities: Software (Non-Instructional)
266203 Technical Support
000000 Default Value

Amount: $49,900

195

 19-1211-EX1
894.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools IDEA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
220 Federal Special Education IDEA Programs
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
462074 Lea Flowthru Instruction - Nonpublic

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
220 Federal Special Education IDEA Programs
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370015 Federal - Idea Nonpublic (Catholic)
462074 Lea Flowthru Instruction - Nonpublic

Amount: $50,000

895.

Transfer from William H Brown Elementary School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
22351 William H Brown Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
500309 Magnet Schools Assistance Program (Cpsmsap)
Fy18-19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $50,398

896.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John Foster Dulles Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-06 To Project# 2020-26141-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26141 John Foster Dulles Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $51,110

897.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Christian Fenger Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-06 To Project# 2019-46111-STK ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46111 Christian Fenger Academy High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $52,263

196

 19-1211-EX1
898.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John C Burroughs Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-01 To Project# 2019-22481-STK ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22481 John C Burroughs Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $52,618

899.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Hyde Park Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-10 To Project# 2020-46171-OPI-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009506 Asset Management Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46171 Hyde Park Academy High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $54,000

900.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Daniel Boone Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-436-00-03 To Project# 2020-22271-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253544 Child Award
188814 Space To Grow-Iga Water Reclamation District

Transfer To:
22271 Daniel Boone Elementary School
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
188814 Space To Grow-Iga Water Reclamation District

Amount: $54,981

901.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Daniel Boone Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-436-00-04 To Project# 2020-22271-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253544 Child Award
188815 Space To Grow-Chgo Dept. Of Water

Transfer To:
22271 Daniel Boone Elementary School
436 IGA and Other Capital Projects Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
188815 Space To Grow-Chgo Dept. Of Water

Amount: $54,981

902.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Daniel Boone Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-13 To Project# 2020-22271-NCP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
320008 Playgrounds And Stadia
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22271 Daniel Boone Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $54,981

197

 19-1211-EX1
903.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to James B Farnsworth Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-485-00-10 To Project# 2020-23161-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
144605 Brick Masonry
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23161 James B Farnsworth Elementary School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $55,268

904.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Chicago Academy Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-06 To Project# 2019-45211-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
45211 Chicago Academy Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $55,341

905.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Disney II Magnet School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-485-00-10 To Project# 2020-26921-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
144605 Brick Masonry
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26921 Disney II Magnet School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $55,675

906.

Transfer from Carl Schurz High School to Citywide Student Support and Engagement
Rationale:

Aligning to approved grant budget

Transfer From:
46281 Carl Schurz High School
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000044 Ctu Sustainable Schools Initiative

Transfer To:
10875 Citywide Student Support and Engagement
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
390011 Community School Initiative
000044 Ctu Sustainable Schools Initiative

Amount: $57,594

907.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Roswell B Mason Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-427-00-01 To Project# 2018-24381-NPG ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24381 Roswell B Mason Elementary School
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $58,409

198

 19-1211-EX1
908.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Associated Talmud Torah Of
Rationale:

Chicago

Transfer funds for approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Title I programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
430235 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Catholic

Transfer To:
69530 Associated Talmud Torah Of Chicago
332 NCLB Title I Regular Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
300013 Non-Public Professional Development
430239 Nonpublic Inst. & Supp. Serv. - Jewish

Amount: $59,680

909.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Charles P Caldwell Academy of Math & Science ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-10 To Project# 2020-22511-NPG ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009506 Asset Management Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22511 Charles P Caldwell Academy of Math & Science ES
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009509 Ss O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $61,305

910.

Transfer from YCCS-Dr. Pedro Albizu Campos Puerto Rican HS to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66615 YCCS-Dr. Pedro Albizu Campos Puerto Rican HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $61,314

911.

Transfer from Talent Office to Talent Office
Rationale:

Per Courtney Hrejsa. Loading DLOS budget to match as approved in 524.

Transfer From:
11010 Talent Office
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
262005 Educator Effectiveness
542134 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity School (Dlos)
Fy20
Amount: $62,633

199

Transfer To:
11010 Talent Office
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54205 Travel Expense
262005 Educator Effectiveness
542134 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity School (Dlos)
Fy20

 19-1211-EX1
912.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Norwood Park Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-427-00-01 To Project# 2019-24711-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24711 Norwood Park Elementary School
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $63,620

913.

Transfer from Magnet, Gifted and IB Programs to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
10845 Magnet, Gifted and IB Programs
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
500309 Magnet Schools Assistance Program (Cpsmsap)
Fy18-19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $65,500

914.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Gage Park High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-10 To Project# 2020-46141-OMA ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009506 Asset Management Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46141 Gage Park High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009518 Aramark Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $66,750

915.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) programs
Rationale:

Transfer funding to clear negative.

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324
57915
600002
041008

Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
Contingency For Project Expansion
Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $67,823

200

Transfer To:
10871 Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM)
programs
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
500311 Magnet Schools Assistance Program (Cpsmsap) Fy20

 19-1211-EX1
916.

Transfer from Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) programs to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
10871 Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM)
programs
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
500309 Magnet Schools Assistance Program (Cpsmsap)
Fy18-19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324
57915
600002
041008

Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
Contingency For Project Expansion
Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $67,823

917.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Myra Bradwell Communications Arts & Sciences ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-12 To Project# 2020-22291-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253515 Energy
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22291 Myra Bradwell Communications Arts & Sciences ES
488 Series 2017H
56304 Capitalized Software
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $69,388

918.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Myra Bradwell Communications Arts & Sciences ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-12 To Project# 2020-22291-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253515 Energy
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22291 Myra Bradwell Communications Arts & Sciences ES
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $69,388

919.

Transfer from Myra Bradwell Communications Arts & Sciences ES to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2020-22291-BAS To Award# 2020-488-00-12 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
22291 Myra Bradwell Communications Arts & Sciences ES
488 Series 2017H
56304 Capitalized Software
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value
Amount: $69,388

201

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253515 Energy
000000 Default Value

 19-1211-EX1
920.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Englewood STEM HS
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2017-485-00-01 To Project# 2018-46691-NSC ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253544 Child Award
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46691 Englewood STEM HS
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56302 Capitalized Equipment
009441 New School Openings
000000 Default Value

Amount: $69,617

921.

Transfer from Talent Office to Teacher Leader Development and Innovation
Rationale:

Per Yasmin Chaudhury. Please open new DLOS specialist position in T & L unit.

Transfer From:
11010 Talent Office
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
262005 Educator Effectiveness
542134 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity School (Dlos)
Fy20

Transfer To:
11551 Teacher Leader Development and Innovation
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
542134 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity School (Dlos)
Fy20

Amount: $70,000

922.

Transfer from Teacher Leader Development and Innovation to Talent Office
Rationale:

No new FTE being created.

Transfer From:
11551 Teacher Leader Development and Innovation
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
542134 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity School (Dlos)
Fy20

Transfer To:
11010 Talent Office
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
262005 Educator Effectiveness
542134 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity School (Dlos)
Fy20

Amount: $70,000

923.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Wilma Rudolph Elementary Learning Center
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-427-00-01 To Project# 2019-30121-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
30121 Wilma Rudolph Elementary Learning Center
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $70,000

202

 19-1211-EX1
924.

Transfer from Arts to Arts
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for substitute and teacher extended day buckets

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
336 NCLB Title V Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
500026 Project Cultivate Fy20

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
336 NCLB Title V Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
500026 Project Cultivate Fy20

Amount: $71,719

925.

Transfer from Assessment to Assessment
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for Assessment Specialist

Transfer From:
11210 Assessment
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
223013 Assessments/Standards
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
11210 Assessment
115 General Education Fund
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $75,000

926.

Transfer from Teacher Leader Development and Innovation to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
11551 Teacher Leader Development and Innovation
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
542133 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity School (Dlos)
Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $75,519

927.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Teacher Leader Development and Innovation
Rationale:

Transfer funding to clear negative.

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion
Amount: $75,519

203

Transfer To:
11551 Teacher Leader Development and Innovation
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
542134 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity School (Dlos)
Fy20

 19-1211-EX1
928.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to George Armstrong International Studies ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-12 To Project# 2020-22081-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253515 Energy
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22081 George Armstrong International Studies ES
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $77,300

929.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Louisa May Alcott College Preparatory ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-06 To Project# 2019-22041-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22041 Louisa May Alcott College Preparatory ES
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $79,013

930.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Social and Emotional Learning
Rationale:

to open Transition Specialist position

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119004 Other General Charges
005063 Fy19 School Actions - Englewood

Transfer To:
10895 Social and Emotional Learning
115 General Education Fund
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
005063 Fy19 School Actions - Englewood

Amount: $80,000

931.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William J Bogan High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-06 To Project# 2020-46041-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46041 William J Bogan High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $80,700

932.

Transfer from YCCS-Dr. Pedro Albizu Campos Puerto Rican HS to Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS)
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for charter reimbursement requests approved through the FY19 IL-Empower grant.

Transfer From:
66615 YCCS-Dr. Pedro Albizu Campos Puerto Rican HS
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19
Amount: $82,317

204

Transfer To:
66101 Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS)
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

 19-1211-EX1
933.

Transfer from School Transportation - City Wide to Oscar Mayer Magnet School
Rationale:

Parent reimbursement; $26k for Jan- June 2019 period. $56K for fy20 before reconciliation.

Transfer From:
11940 School Transportation - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
54210 Pupil Transportation
255021 Options Student Transportation
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24401 Oscar Mayer Magnet School
115 General Education Fund
54210 Pupil Transportation
255021 Options Student Transportation
000000 Default Value

Amount: $83,000

934.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Douglas Taylor Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-10 To Project# 2020-25591-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009506 Asset Management Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25591 Douglas Taylor Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $83,404

935.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Little Village Multiplex
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-02 To Project# 2020-49121-SCI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
49121 Little Village Multiplex
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $84,118

936.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Richard J Oglesby Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-06 To Project# 2020-24741-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24741 Richard J Oglesby Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $84,240

205

 19-1211-EX1
937.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Social and Emotional Learning - City Wide
Rationale:

Transfer funding to Social and Emotional Learning - City Wide for the FY20 Teams, Interventions, Evaluations, and Resources for
Supportive Schools (TIERSS)

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
358 Title IV
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Transfer To:
10898 Social and Emotional Learning - City Wide
358 Title IV
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
509192 Teams, Interventions, Evaluations, And Resources For
Supportive Schools (Tierss)

Amount: $84,469

938.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Newton Bateman Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-485-00-10 To Project# 2020-22171-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
144605 Brick Masonry
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22171 Newton Bateman Elementary School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $86,983

939.

Transfer from William Jones College Preparatory High School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

Sweeping Funds for Fund 124 Reimbursable Funds

Transfer From:
47021 William Jones College Preparatory High School
124 School Special Income Fund
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
002239 Internal Accounts Book Transfers

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
124 School Special Income Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600005 Special Income Fund 124 - Contingency
002239 Internal Accounts Book Transfers

Amount: $90,755

940.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to George M Pullman Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-06 To Project# 2020-25041-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25041 George M Pullman Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $97,540

206

 19-1211-EX1
941.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Computer Science
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to clear negative.

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Transfer To:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
52100 Career Service Salaries - Regular
221117 Computer Education
548024 Track 2 Cs10k: Accelerate Ecs4all Fy19

Amount: $99,339

942.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Edward Beasley Elementary Magnet Academic Center
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-07 To Project# 2020-29321-SIT ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253539 Developer Services And Permitting
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
29321 Edward Beasley Elementary Magnet Academic Center
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009526 All Other
000000 Default Value

Amount: $101,278

943.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Thomas Drummond Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-07 To Project# 2020-23021-SIT ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253539 Developer Services And Permitting
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23021 Thomas Drummond Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Amount: $101,278

944.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Pulaski International School of Chicago
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-07 To Project# 2020-31211-SIT ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253539 Developer Services And Permitting
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
31211 Pulaski International School of Chicago
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $101,278

945.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Burnham Elementary Inclusive Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-06 To Project# 2020-22431-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22431 Burnham Elementary Inclusive Academy
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $103,870

207

 19-1211-EX1
946.

Transfer from Arts to Arts
Rationale:

Transfer funding to clear negative.

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
336 NCLB Title V Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
500026 Project Cultivate Fy20

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
336 NCLB Title V Fund
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
500026 Project Cultivate Fy20

Amount: $107,885

947.

Transfer from Arts to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

Expired grant - transfer to contingency.

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
336 NCLB Title V Fund
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
500025 Project Cultivate Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
336 NCLB Title V Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $108,173

948.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Access and Enrollment
Rationale:

Open OAE Position #

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
51100 Teacher Salaries - Regular
419001 Payroll Salvage
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
11201 Access and Enrollment
115 General Education Fund
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $109,786

949.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Office of Catholic Schools
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools IDEA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
220 Federal Special Education IDEA Programs
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
462074 Lea Flowthru Instruction - Nonpublic
Amount: $110,000

208

Transfer To:
69510 Office of Catholic Schools
220 Federal Special Education IDEA Programs
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370015 Federal - Idea Nonpublic (Catholic)
462074 Lea Flowthru Instruction - Nonpublic

 19-1211-EX1
950.

Transfer from Network 6 to Network Support
Rationale:

Transferring funds from closing N6 Deputy Position per ONS and Budget Leadership - opening a new position in ONS using N6
Deputy position costs

Transfer From:
02461 Network 6
115 General Education Fund
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
11110 Network Support
115 General Education Fund
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $110,582

951.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Emil G Hirsch Metropolitan High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-485-00-10 To Project# 2020-47031-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
144605 Brick Masonry
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
47031 Emil G Hirsch Metropolitan High School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $110,665

952.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Frederick A Douglass Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-10 To Project# 2020-41061-OHI-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009506 Asset Management Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
41061 Frederick A Douglass Academy High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $111,360

953.

Transfer from Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide to Lutheran Education Foundation
Rationale:

Transfer funds to process approved purchase order requests for Nonpublic Schools IDEA programs

Transfer From:
12625 Grant Funded Programs Office - City Wide
220 Federal Special Education IDEA Programs
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
370004 Nonpublic Instructional & Support Services
462074 Lea Flowthru Instruction - Nonpublic
Amount: $111,930

209

Transfer To:
69336 Lutheran Education Foundation
220 Federal Special Education IDEA Programs
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
370010 Federal - Idea Nonpublic (Lutheran)
462074 Lea Flowthru Instruction - Nonpublic

 19-1211-EX1
954.

Transfer from Bowen High School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2020-46491-OHI-1 To Award# 2020-488-00-10 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
46491 Bowen High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009506 Asset Management Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009506 Asset Management Repairs
000000 Default Value

Amount: $119,762

955.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Patrick Henry Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-485-00-10 To Project# 2020-23731-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
144605 Brick Masonry
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23731 Patrick Henry Elementary School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $121,348

956.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Simpson Academy HS for Young Women
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-05 To Project# 2019-49051-FAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
254605 School Safety Services
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
49051 Simpson Academy HS for Young Women
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Amount: $121,410

957.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Barbara Vick Early Childhood & Family Center
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-485-00-13 To Project# 2020-26731-ROF ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26731 Barbara Vick Early Childhood & Family Center
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $125,064

958.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Mariano Azuela Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-07 To Project# 2020-22921-SIT ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253539 Developer Services And Permitting
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22921 Mariano Azuela Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Amount: $128,343

210

 19-1211-EX1
959.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Woodlawn Community Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-05 To Project# 2019-23631-FAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
254605 School Safety Services
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23631 Woodlawn Community Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Amount: $133,604

960.

Transfer from Claremont Academy Elementary School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
31301 Claremont Academy Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
500309 Magnet Schools Assistance Program (Cpsmsap)
Fy18-19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $135,539

961.

Transfer from Joseph Jungman Elementary School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
23961 Joseph Jungman Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
500309 Magnet Schools Assistance Program (Cpsmsap)
Fy18-19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $148,626

962.

Transfer from Talent Office to Talent Office
Rationale:

Per Courtney Hrejsa. Loading DLOS budget to match as approved in 524.

Transfer From:
11010 Talent Office
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
262005 Educator Effectiveness
542134 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity School (Dlos)
Fy20
Amount: $150,000

211

Transfer To:
11010 Talent Office
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
262005 Educator Effectiveness
542134 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity School (Dlos)
Fy20

 19-1211-EX1
963.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Talent Office
Rationale:

Transfer funding to clear negative.

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Transfer To:
11010 Talent Office
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
542134 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity School (Dlos)
Fy20

Amount: $151,787

964.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Rufus M Hitch Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-06 To Project# 2019-23811-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23811 Rufus M Hitch Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $152,409

965.

Transfer from William H Brown Elementary School to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
22351 William H Brown Elementary School
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
500309 Magnet Schools Assistance Program (Cpsmsap)
Fy18-19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $153,252

966.

Transfer from Computer Science to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
221117 Computer Education
500012 Chicago Alliance For Equity In Computer Science
(Cafe-Cs) Fy19
Amount: $155,135

212

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

 19-1211-EX1
967.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Logandale Middle School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-05 To Project# 2019-41091-FAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
254605 School Safety Services
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
41091 Logandale Middle School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Amount: $155,248

968.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Carl Schurz High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-07 To Project# 2020-46281-ROF ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253539 Developer Services And Permitting
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46281 Carl Schurz High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Amount: $159,861

969.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to James Shields Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-05 To Project# 2019-25361-FAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
254605 School Safety Services
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25361 James Shields Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Amount: $160,815

970.

Transfer from Computer Science to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
11405 Computer Science
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
500012 Chicago Alliance For Equity In Computer Science
(Cafe-Cs) Fy19
Amount: $164,000

213

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

 19-1211-EX1
971.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to James R Doolittle Jr Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-10 To Project# 2020-22991-OPI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009506 Asset Management Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22991 James R Doolittle Jr Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009511 Sw O&M Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $168,450

972.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Edwin G. Foreman College and Career Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-485-00-10 To Project# 2020-46131-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
144605 Brick Masonry
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46131 Edwin G. Foreman College and Career Academy
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $173,864

973.

Transfer from Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS) to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
66101 Youth Connection Charter School (YCCS)
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
54320 Student Tuition - Charter Schools
119010 Other Instructional Programs
433132 Il-Empower (Cohort 19 - Grant 2) Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
367 Title I - Comprehensive School Reform
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $176,440

974.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Benito Juarez Community Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-427-00-01 To Project# 2019-46421-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46421 Benito Juarez Community Academy High School
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $178,094

975.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to George Washington Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-07 To Project# 2019-25771-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253539 Developer Services And Permitting
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25771 George Washington Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $179,423

214

 19-1211-EX1
976.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Louis A Agassiz Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-05 To Project# 2019-22031-FAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
254605 School Safety Services
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22031 Louis A Agassiz Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Amount: $183,998

977.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Countee Cullen Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-07 To Project# 2020-23891-MCR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253539 Developer Services And Permitting
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23891 Countee Cullen Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $193,945

978.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Parkside Elementary Community Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-05 To Project# 2019-31201-FAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
254605 School Safety Services
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
31201 Parkside Elementary Community Academy
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Amount: $199,837

979.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to David G Farragut Career Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-10 To Project# 2020-53091-OHI ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009506 Asset Management Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
53091 David G Farragut Career Academy High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009517 Sodexo Ifm - Cip
000000 Default Value

Amount: $199,955

980.

Transfer from Accounting to Accounting
Rationale:

To open Senior Business Systems Analyst and Systems Accountant.

Transfer From:
12410 Accounting
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
254001 Financial Reporting & Compliance
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12410 Accounting
115 General Education Fund
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $200,000

215

 19-1211-EX1
981.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to George Washington Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-07 To Project# 2019-25771-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253539 Developer Services And Permitting
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25771 George Washington Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $200,993

982.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to John D Shoop Math-Science Technical Academy ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-06 To Project# 2020-25381-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25381 John D Shoop Math-Science Technical Academy ES
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $201,010

983.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Charles P Caldwell Academy of Math & Science ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-06 To Project# 2020-22511-MCR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22511 Charles P Caldwell Academy of Math & Science ES
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Amount: $206,652

984.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Jane Addams Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-01 To Project# 2020-22021-ROF ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22021 Jane Addams Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $212,167

985.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Frank I Bennett Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-05 To Project# 2019-22241-FAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
254605 School Safety Services
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22241 Frank I Bennett Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Amount: $212,611

216

 19-1211-EX1
986.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Talent Office - City Wide
Rationale:

Per Michael Sitkowski. Transfer for Teacher Residency bucket.

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
57940 Miscellaneous Charges
119035 Other Instruction Purposes - Miscellaneous
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
11070 Talent Office - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
51320 Bucket Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $220,000

987.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Social and Emotional Learning - City Wide
Rationale:

Transfer funding to Social and Emotional Learning - City Wide for the FY20 Teams, Interventions, Evaluations, and Resources for
Supportive Schools (TIERSS)

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
358 Title IV
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Transfer To:
10898 Social and Emotional Learning - City Wide
358 Title IV
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
211010 Tier I Services
509192 Teams, Interventions, Evaluations, And Resources For
Supportive Schools (Tierss)

Amount: $220,900

988.

Transfer from Talent Office to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
11010 Talent Office
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51330 Benefits Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
542133 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity School (Dlos)
Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $221,131

989.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Mount Greenwood Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-485-00-10 To Project# 2020-24591-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
144605 Brick Masonry
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24591 Mount Greenwood Elementary School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $226,128

217

 19-1211-EX1
990.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Agustin Lara Elementary Academy
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-07 To Project# 2020-23791-MCR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253539 Developer Services And Permitting
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23791 Agustin Lara Elementary Academy
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $227,897

991.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Frederic Chopin Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-437-00-05 To Project# 2019-22721-FAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
254605 School Safety Services
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22721 Frederic Chopin Elementary School
437 CIP Series 2018D
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Amount: $235,747

992.

Transfer from Arts to Arts
Rationale:

Transfer requested for Year 2 Allocation per Approved Grant Budget from Misc. - Contingent Projects line.

Transfer From:
10890 Arts
336 NCLB Title V Fund
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
500026 Project Cultivate Fy20

Transfer To:
10890 Arts
336 NCLB Title V Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
221011 Improvement Of Instruction
500026 Project Cultivate Fy20

Amount: $235,858

993.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Lyman A Budlong Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-07 To Project# 2020-22391-MEP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253539 Developer Services And Permitting
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22391 Lyman A Budlong Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $241,956

994.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Marcus Moziah Garvey Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-485-00-13 To Project# 2020-24951-ROF ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24951 Marcus Moziah Garvey Elementary School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $245,090

218

 19-1211-EX1
995.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Charles S Deneen Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-06 To Project# 2020-22931-ROF ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22931 Charles S Deneen Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Amount: $250,986

996.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Christopher Columbus Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-01 To Project# 2019-22791-MCR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22791 Christopher Columbus Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $251,000

997.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Charles P Caldwell Academy of Math & Science ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-06 To Project# 2020-22511-MCR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22511 Charles P Caldwell Academy of Math & Science ES
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Amount: $261,932

998.

Transfer from Charles P Caldwell Academy of Math & Science ES to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2020-22511-MCR To Award# 2020-488-00-06 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
22511 Charles P Caldwell Academy of Math & Science ES
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Amount: $261,932

999.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Alice L Barnard Computer Math & Science Ctr ES
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-485-00-10 To Project# 2020-22131-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
144605 Brick Masonry
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22131 Alice L Barnard Computer Math & Science Ctr ES
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $264,258

219

 19-1211-EX1
1000.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Helge A Haugan Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-485-00-10 To Project# 2020-23591-STR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
144605 Brick Masonry
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23591 Helge A Haugan Elementary School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $276,114

1001.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Bernhard Moos Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-12 To Project# 2019-24551-BAS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253515 Energy
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24551 Bernhard Moos Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
253007 Life Safety
000000 Default Value

Amount: $278,300

1002.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Henry Clay Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-01 To Project# 2020-22731-ROF ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22731 Henry Clay Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Amount: $283,800

1003.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to South Loop Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-427-00-01 To Project# 2020-23751-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
23751 South Loop Elementary School
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $292,365

1004.

Transfer from Adlai E Stevenson Elementary School to Capital/Operations - City Wide
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Project# 2020-25471-TUS To Award# 2020-488-00-07 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
25471 Adlai E Stevenson Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253539 Developer Services And Permitting
000000 Default Value

Amount: $296,180

220

 19-1211-EX1
1005.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Durkin Park Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-07 To Project# 2020-26831-TUS ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253539 Developer Services And Permitting
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
26831 Durkin Park Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $296,901

1006.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Social and Emotional Learning - City Wide
Rationale:

Transfer funding to Social and Emotional Learning - City Wide for the FY20 Teams, Interventions, Evaluations, and Resources for
Supportive Schools (TIERSS)

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
358 Title IV
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Transfer To:
10898 Social and Emotional Learning - City Wide
358 Title IV
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
509192 Teams, Interventions, Evaluations, And Resources For
Supportive Schools (Tierss)

Amount: $311,000

1007.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to William Penn Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-01 To Project# 2020-24911-ROF ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24911 William Penn Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $315,958

1008.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Walter S Christopher Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-01 To Project# 2019-30031-MEP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
30031 Walter S Christopher Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $335,183

221

 19-1211-EX1
1009.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Access and Enrollment
Rationale:

Open OAE Position #

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
51100 Teacher Salaries - Regular
419001 Payroll Salvage
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
11201 Access and Enrollment
115 General Education Fund
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
000000 Default Value

Amount: $337,608

1010.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Francis M McKay Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-07 To Project# 2020-24451-ROF ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253539 Developer Services And Permitting
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
24451 Francis M McKay Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Amount: $343,721

1011.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Daniel C Beard Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-485-00-13 To Project# 2020-30051-MCR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
30051 Daniel C Beard Elementary School
485 CIT PayGo Fund
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $440,902

1012.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Augustus H Burley Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-427-00-01 To Project# 2019-22421-ICR-1 ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253536 Emergency Capital Repairs
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
22421 Augustus H Burley Elementary School
427 CIP Series 2016B
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $472,645

222

 19-1211-EX1
1013.

Transfer from Talent Office to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
11010 Talent Office
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
262005 Educator Effectiveness
542133 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity School (Dlos)
Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $523,155

1014.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Talent Office
Rationale:

Transfer funding to clear negative.

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Transfer To:
11010 Talent Office
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
542134 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity School (Dlos)
Fy20

Amount: $546,543

1015.

Transfer from Diverse Learner Supports & Services to Information & Technology Services
Rationale:

DEPT RQST - Computers for RSP services

Transfer From:
11610 Diverse Learner Supports & Services
114 Special Education Fund
54105 Services: Non-technical/Laborer
266411 Technology Acquisitions Leasing
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
12510 Information & Technology Services
115 General Education Fund
55005 Property - Equipment
266418 Technology Purchases
000000 Default Value

Amount: $549,228

1016.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Frank W Reilly Elementary School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-07 To Project# 2020-25101-ROF ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253539 Developer Services And Permitting
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
25101 Frank W Reilly Elementary School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009553 Roofs
000000 Default Value

Amount: $558,348

223

 19-1211-EX1
1017.

Transfer from Pre-K - 12 Curriculum to Pre-K - 12 Curriculum
Rationale:

Transfer of funds for CDW payment

Transfer From:
10814 Pre-K - 12 Curriculum
115 General Education Fund
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
221206 Learning Technology
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
10814 Pre-K - 12 Curriculum
115 General Education Fund
53307 Commodities: Software Licenses (Instructional)
230010 Administrative Support
000000 Default Value

Amount: $636,000

1018.

Transfer from Talent Office to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
11010 Talent Office
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
51300 Regular Position Pointer
290001 General Salary S Bkt
542133 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity School (Dlos)
Fy19

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Amount: $696,554

1019.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Morgan Park High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2020-488-00-13 To Project# 2020-46251-SIP ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
320008 Playgrounds And Stadia
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
46251 Morgan Park High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
009426 All Other
000000 Default Value

Amount: $865,353

1020.

Transfer from Capital/Operations - City Wide to Charles Allen Prosser Career Academy High School
Rationale:

Funds Transfer From Award# 2019-488-00-02 To Project# 2019-53041-ICR ; Change Reason : NA

Transfer From:
12150 Capital/Operations - City Wide
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
251392 Repairs & Improvements
000000 Default Value

Transfer To:
53041 Charles Allen Prosser Career Academy High School
488 Series 2017H
56310 Capitalized Construction
253508 Renovations
000000 Default Value

Amount: $913,837

224

 19-1211-EX1
1021.

Transfer from Education General - City Wide to ECIA Projects
Rationale:

Title III tutoring buckets.

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

Transfer To:
12693 ECIA Projects
356 ELL & Bilingual Programs
51130 Teacher Salaries - Extended Day
180040 English Language Learner (Ell/Lep) Programs
490945 Title Iii - Language Acquisition

Amount: $935,000

1022.

Transfer from Talent Office to Talent Office
Rationale:

Per Courtney Hrejsa. Loading DLOS budget to match as approved in 524.

Transfer From:
11010 Talent Office
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
262005 Educator Effectiveness
542134 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity School (Dlos)
Fy20

Transfer To:
11010 Talent Office
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
262005 Educator Effectiveness
542134 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity School (Dlos)
Fy20

Amount: $942,861

1023.

Transfer from Early Childhood Development - City Wide to Early Childhood Development - City Wide
Rationale:

Transfer of funds needed for CLASS.

Transfer From:
11385 Early Childhood Development - City Wide
362 Early Childhood Development
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
119027 Prek Instruction
376673 State Preschool For All Age 3-5 Community
Partnerships Fy20

Transfer To:
11385 Early Childhood Development - City Wide
362 Early Childhood Development
54125 Services - Professional/Administrative
233019 Early Childhood - Prekg - Admin
376672 State Preschool For All Age 3-5 Fy20

Amount: $1,333,333

1024.

Transfer from Talent Office to Education General - City Wide
Rationale:

EXPIRED Grant - Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
11010 Talent Office
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
262005 Educator Effectiveness
542133 Distributed Leadership In Opportunity School (Dlos)
Fy19
Amount: $1,648,574

225

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State & Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

 19-1211-EX1

1025. i rm in

Rationale: EXPIRED Grant Transfer funding to contingency.

Transfer From:
10845 Magnet, Gifted and lB Programs

324 Miscellaneous Federal, State Local Grants

57940 Miscellaneous Charges
. 233015 Magnet School Program

500309 Magnet Schools Assistance Program 

Fy18-19
Amount: $1,718,993

Wi

Transfer To:
12670 Education General - City Wide
324 Miscellaneous Federal, State Local Grants
57915 Miscellaneous - Contingent Projects
600002 Contingency For Project Expansion
041008 Contingency For Grant Expansion

1026. Transfer from Education General - City Wide to Pension Liability insurance - City Wide

Rationale: Mike Sitkowski approved transfer to appropriate funding for bucket to pay SEIU retro for FY19.

Transfer From:
12670 Education General - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
57915 Miscellaneous Contingent Projects
254101 Asset Management
000000 Default Value

Amount: $7,500,000

Respectful! e- ltted:

     

. 
Appr- as for 

 

226

Transfer To:
12470 Pension Liability Insurance - City Wide
115 General Education Fund
52100 Career Service Salaries - Regular
119004 Other General Charges
000000 Default Value

19-1211-EX2
December 11, 2019

AMEND BOARD REPORT 17-1206-EX12
AUTHORIZE RENEWAL OF THE FRAZIER PREPARATORY ACADEMY CHARTER SCHOOL
AGREEMENT WITH CONDITIONS

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

Authorize renewal of the Frazier Preparatory Academy Charter School Agreement (the ?Charter School
Agreement?) with conditions for an additional three?year period. A new Charter School Agreement
applicable to this renewal term will be negotiated. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind
in the event a written Charter School Agreement is not executed by the Board and the charter school's
governing board within 120 days of the date of this Board Report. The agreement authorized herein will only
take effect upon certi?cation by the illinois State Board of Education. information pertinent to this renewal is
stated below.

This December 2019 amendment is necessary to revoke the charter and Charter School Agreement
for Frazier Preparatory Academy Charter School at the end of the 2019-2020 school year for the reasons
set forth below, and authorize a wind down agreement for the charter school. Frazier Academy Design
Team. Inc. shall wind down and cease operations of its charter school and return its charter to the Board
effective as of July 1, 2020.

SCHOOL OPERATOR: Frazier Academy Design Team, Inc., an IL not-for?profit corporation
3711 W. Douglas 
Chicago, Illinois 60623
Phone: 773-521?1334 
Contact Person: Tommy Meere Sr., Board President

CHARTER SCHOOL: Frazier Preparatory Academy Charter School
3711 W. Douglas 
Chicago, Illinois 60623
Phone: 773-521-1334
Contact Person: Tommy Moore _D__uf_f Sr., Board. President

OVERSIGHT: Office of Innovation and Incubation
42 W. Madison Street, 3? Floor
Chicago, IL 60602
Phone: 773-553-1530
Contact Person: Hal Woods Mary?K?Bradley, Interim Executive Director

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT: The original Charter School Agreement (authorized by Board Report 13-0626-
EX4) was for a term commencing July 1, 2013 and ending June 30, 2018 and authorized the operation of
a charter school serving no more than 560 students in grades through 8. The charter and Charter School
Agreement were subsequently amended as follows:

0 Board Report Approved the relocation of the charter school to the CPS facility at .
3711 W. Douglas Boulevard beginning in the fall of 2014.

CHARTER RENEWAL PROPOSAL: Frazier Academy Design Team, Inc. submitted a renewal proposal
on July 31, 2017 to continue the operation of Frazier Preparatory Academy Charter School (?Frazier Prep?).
The charter school shall continue to be located at 3711 W. Douglas Boulevard and shall continue to serve
grades through 8 with a maximum renrollment of 560 students. -

If Frazier Academy Design Team, Inc. is authorized to operate a pre-kindergarten program in the same
building as the charter school, the children enrolled in the pie-kindergarten will not be included in the
enrollment of the charter school and the pre?kindergarten program will not be governed by the Charter
School Agreement.

19-1211-EX2

The agreement will incorporate an accountability plan in which the charter school is evaluated by the Board
each year based on numerous factors related to its academic, financial and operational performance.

On November 27. 2019, the Of?ce of innovation and incubation provided written notice to Frazier Academy
Design Team. Inc. that the Chief Executive Officer intended to recommend to the Board the
revocation of the charter and Charter School Agreement for Frazier Prep effective at the end of the 2019?

2020 school year.

Section 27A-9icli2) of the Illinois Charter Schools Law states that a charter may be revoked if it fails to
?meet or make reasonable progress toward achievement of the content standards or pupil performance
standards identi?ed in the charter.? Furthermore. Section of the lIIinois Charter Schools Law
states that, after being noti?ed of the reason for revocation, the charter school must submit a written plan
for remediation, the plan for remediation will be reviewed and a determination will be made whether the
charter school failed to implement the plan.

Frazier Prep?s Charter School Agreement dictates that the charter school will be evaluated annually in-

accordance with the CPS School Quality Rating Policy and Charter School Quality Policy
to determine if the school is meeting or making reasonable progress toward achievement of the
content standards or pupil performance standards. On October 26, 2018. Frazier Academy Design Team,
inc. was given notice that Frazier Prep received a Level 2 rating on the SQRP for the prior 2017-2018
school year and its school was failing to meet or make reasonable progress toward achievement of the
content standards or pupil performance standards, and was placed in Revocation status. Frazier Prep was
placed on the Academic Warning List and submitted a remediation plan. The Office of innovation and
incubation. in coniunction with the Office of Accountability. reviewed the remediation plan and its
implementation in accordance with the academic revocation process timeline. On November 8, 20194
Frazier Prep received another Level 2 rating on SQRP for the prior 2018-2019 school year. Frazier Prep
was placed on the Academic Warning List for a second consecutive year due to its continued failure to
meet or make reasonable progress toward achievement of the content standards or pupil performance
standards.

On November 8, 2019, Frazier Academy Design Team. Inc. was noti?ed of a public hearind on November
14, 2019 for the consideration of revocation of the charter and Charter School Agreement for Frazier Prep.
The hearing notice was published in the November 9. 2019 edition of the Chicago Sun-Times. The hearing
was conducted on November 14. 2019.

Pursuant to the lIIinois Charter Schools Law and the Charter School Agreement. the CEO recommends
that the charter and Charter School Agreement for Frazier Prep be revoked at the end of the 2019? 2020
school year because Frazier Prep has been on the Academic Warning List for two consecutive years and
has failed to implement its remediation plan. -

Frazier Academy Design Team, Inc. shall wind down and cease operations of its charter school and return
its charter to the Board effective as of July 1- 2020. Both parties shall enter into a wind down agreement
with respect to the charter revocation.

CHARTER EVALUATION: After receiving the charter renewal proposal, the Of?ce of Innovation and
Incubation conducted a comprehensive evaluation of Frazier Prep?s academic performance, ?nancial
viability, and legal and contract compliance. This evaluation included a review of the proposal, academic
results, ?nancial performance, governance documents, parental issues, facilities surveys, and special
education documentation. A public hearing was held on November 6, 2017 for all contract and charter
schools going through renewal to receive public comments, including Frazier Prep. The Office of innovation
and Incubation recommends that, based on the school?s performance on these and other accountability
criteria, as well as the school's demonstration of intent to satisfy the ?Additional Terms and Conditions?-
referred to herein below, Frazier Prep be authorized to continue operating as a charter school.

19-1211-EX2

RENEWAL TERM: The term of Frazier Prep?s charter and agreement is being extended for a three (3) year
term commencing July 1, 2018 and ending June 30, 2021. Frazier Prep?s charter and agreement are being
revoked at the end of the 2019-2020 school year. The charter for this school shall be returned to the Board
effective as of July 1, 2020.

ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS: Additional terms and conditions will be communicated to the
charter school by the Chief Executive Of?cer or his designee in a formal Letter of Conditions and will be
included as an attachment to the Charter School Agreement with Frazier Academy Design Team, Inc.

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the General Counsel to include relevant terms and conditions, including any
indemnities to be provided to the charter school, in the written Charter Schooi Agreement and wind down
agreement for the charter school. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the written Charter
School Agreement and wind down agreement for the charter school. Authorize the Interim Executive
Director of the Office of Innovation and Incubation to issue a letter notifying the Illinois State Board of
Education of the action(s) approved hereunder and to submit the approved proposal and signed Charter
School Agreement to the Illinois State Board of Education for certification. Authorize the General Counsel
to further negotiate and execute any amendments to the Charter School Agreement as required by-the
Illinois State Board of Education. Authorize the Interim Executive Director of the Office of Innovation and
Incubation to issue a letter notifying the Illinois State Board of Education and the Illinois State Charter
School Commission of the revocation of the charter and the Charter School Agreement and any other
information as may be necessary due to the closure of the charter school.

LSC REVIEW: Approval of Local School Council is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL: The ?nancial implications will be addressed during the development of the 2048-2049 2020-
?scal year budget. Since the School Code of Illinois prohibits the incurring of any liability unless an
appropriation has been previously made, expenditures beyond FY4829 are deemed to be contingent
liabilities only, subject to appropriation in subsequent fiscal year budgets.

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

InSpector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
'the' Inspector General of the Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shalt not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
Provisions of 105 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one?year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
office.

Indebtedness The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 as amended from
time to time, shalt be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.



19-1211-EX2

Ethics The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to
time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Approved for Consideration: Approved:



. Jabkson 
'xecu ve Officer

 

 

  
  

BinW
Chi ortfolio Offic- 

-proved ast r-ra ?mu/@f

J1

Jo" ep 
General Cou 


December 11, 2019

AMEND BOARD REPORT 
AMEND BOARD REPORT 16-0427-EX4
AUTHORIZE RENEWAL OF THE CHICAGO VIRTUAL CHARTER SCHOOL AGREEMENT
WITH CONDITIONS

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RECOMMENDS THE FOLLOWING:

Authorize renewal of the Chicago Virtual Charter School Agreement (the ?Charter School Agreement?) with
conditions for an additionai ?ve?year period. A new Charter School Agreement applicable to this renewal
term will be negotiated. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written
Charter School Agreement is not executed by the Board and the charter school's governing board within
120 days of the date of this Board Report. The agreement authorized herein will only take effect upon
certi?cation by the Illinois State Board of Education. Information pertinent to this renewal is stated below.

This April 2018 amendment is necessary to authorize Chicago Virtual Charter School to terminate its
agreement with its education management organization, K12 Ciassroom LLC, effective July 1, 2018. The
authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written amendment to the Charter School
Agreement is not executed by the Board and the charter school's governing board within 120 days of the
date of this amended Board Report.

This December 2019 amendment is necessary to revoke the charter and Charter School Agreement
for Chicago Virtual Charter School at the end of the 2019-2020 school year for the reasons set forth below.
and authorize a wind down agreement for the charter school. Chicaqo Virtual Charter School shall
wind down and cease operations of its charter schooi and return its charter to the Board effective as of

July 1, 2020.

SCHOOL Chicago Virtual Charter School
CHARTER SCHOOL: 38 8. Peoria Street
Chicago, Illinois 60607
Phone: 312?267-4486
Contact Person(s): Dr. Vikki Stokes, CEO


OVERSIGHT: Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation
42 W. Madison Street, 3? Floor
Chicago, IL 60602
Phone: 773?553?1530
Contact Person: Hal Woods lnterim Executive Director

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT: The original Charter School Agreement (authorized by Board Report 06-0125?
EX2) was for a term commencing August 16, 2006 and ending June 30, 2011 and authorized the operation
of a charter school sewing no more than 600 students in grades through 8. The charter and Charter
School Agreement were subsequently renewed (authorized by Board Report 11-0427-EX11) for a term
commencing July 1, 2011 and ending June 30, 2016, serving grades through 12. The charter and Charter
School Agreement were subsequently amended as follows:

0 Board Report Approved the increase in the enrollment of the charter school by
80 to 680 students beginning in the fall of 2013.

CHARTER RENEWAL PROPOSAL: Chicago Virtual Charter SchOol submitted a renewal proposal on
October 19, 2015 to continue the operation of Chicago Virtual Charter School. The charter school shall
continue to be located at 38 S. Peoria Street, and to serve grades through 12 with a maximum enrollment
of 680 students.



The agreement will incorporate an accountability plan in which the charter school is evaluated by the Board
each year based on numerous factors related to its academic, ?nancial and operational performance.

In February 2018, Chicago Virtual Charter School submitted an application for amendment to terminate its
agreement with its education management organization, K12 Classroom LLC, effective July 1, 2018. A
public hearing on the proposed termination was held on Wednesday, April 11, 2018. The hearing was
recorded and a summary report is available for review.

On November 27?, 2019. the Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation provided written notice to Chicago Virtual
Charter School that the Chief Executive Of?cer intended to recommend to the Board the revocation
of the charter and Charter School Agreement for Chicago Virtual Charter Schooi effective at the end of the
2019~2020 school year. .)

Section of the Illinois Charter Schools Law states that a charter may be revoked if it fails to
?meet or make reasonable progress toward achievement of the content standards or pupil performance
standards identi?ed in the charter.? Furthermore, Section 27A-QLcil4i of the Illinois Charter Schools Law
states that, after being notified of the reason for revocation. the charter school must submit a written plan
for remediation, the plan for remediation will be reviewed and a determination will be made whether the
charter school failed to implement the plan.

Chicago Virtual Charter School?s Charter School Agreement dictates that the charter school will be
evaluated annually in accordance with the CPS School Quality Rating Policy and Charter School
Quality Policy to determine if the school is meeting or making reasonable progress toward
achievement of the content standards or pupil performance standards. On October 26, 2018, Chicago
Virtual Charter School was given notice that Chicago Virtual Charter School received a Level 2 rating on
the SQRP for the prior 2017-2018 school year and its school was failing to meet or make reasonable
progress toward achievement of the content standards or pupii performance standards, and was placed in
Revocation status. Chicago Virtual Charter School was placed on the Academic Warning List and
submitted a remediation plan. The Office of innovation and incubation. in coniunction with the Of?ce of
Accountability, reviewed the remediation plan and its implementation in accordance with the academic
revocation process timeline. On November 8. 2019. Chicago Virtual Charter School received another Level
2 rating on SQRP for the prior 2018-2019 school year. Chicago Virtual Charter School was placed on the
Academic Warning List for a second consecutive year due to its continued failure to meet or make
reasonable progress toward achievement of the content standards or pupil performance standards.

On November 8. 2019, Chicago Virtual Charter School was notified of a public hearing on November 14,
2019 for the consideration of revocation of the charter and Charter School Agreement for Chicago Virtual
Charter School. The hearing notice was published in the November 9, 2019 edition of the Chicago Sun?
Times. The hearing was conducted on November 14, 2019.

Pursuant to the Illinois Charter Schools Law and the Charter School Agreement, the CEO recommends
that the charter and Charter School Agreement for Chicago Virtual Charter Schooi be revoked at the end
of the 2019-2020 school year because Chicago Virtual Charter School has been on the Academic Warning
List for two consecutive years and has failed to implement its remediation plan.

Chicago Virtual Charter School shall wind down and cease operations of its charter school and return its
charter to the Board effective as of July 1, 2020. Both parties shall enter into a wind down agreement with
respect to the charter revocation.

CHARTER EVALUATION: After receiving the charter renewal proposal, the Of?ce of innovation and
Incubation conducted a comprehensive evaluation of Chicago Virtual Charter School?s academic
performance, ?nancial viability, and legal and contract compliance. This evaluation included a review of the
proposal, academic results, ?nancial performance, governance documents, parental issues, facilities
surveys, and special education documentation. A public hearing was held on April 19, 2016 for all contract
and charter schools going through renewals to receive public comments, including Chicago Virtual Charter
School. The Office of Innovation and Incubation recommends that, based on the school?s performance on

2

19-1211-EX3

these and other accountability criteria, as well as the school's demonstration of intent to satisfy the
?Additional Terms and Conditions? referred to herein below, Chicago Virtual Charter School be authorized
to continue operating as a charter school.

RENEWAL TERM: The term of Chicago Virtual Charter School?s charter and agreement is being extended
for a ?ve (5) year term commencing July 1, 2016 and ending June 30, 2021. Chicago Virtual Charter
School's charter and agreement are beino revoked at the end of the 2019?2020 school year. The charter
for this school shall be returned to the Board effective as of July 1, 2020.

ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS: Chicago Virtual Charter School?s charter and agreement shall
be recommended for renewal with the foliowing conditions to be inciuded in the agreement:
i,
. On or before July 15, 2016, the school must present evidence to the Of?ce of Innovation and
incubation of a student application form consistent with state charter law.

0 On or before July 15, 2016, the school must submit evidence to l&l of completion of Open Meetings
Act training for all current board members.

. On or before January 1, 2017, and thereafter every January 1, the school must show evidence to
that it is and shall remain in compliance with state and federal requirements governing English
Learners as demonstrated on formal compliance reports from Board?s Office of Language and
Cultural Education (OLCE). Chicago Public Schools has designated OLCE to conduct school visits
and make a determination of compiiance with state and federal requirements regarding English
Learner Programs.

. On or before June 1, 2017, and thereafter every June 1, the school must show evidence to l&l that
it is and shall remain in compliance with CPS Diverse Learner expectations of timely completion of
evaluations/lndividualized Education Plans (lEPs) and Related Service Provider (RSP) service
documentation as measured by the Board?s Of?ce of Diverse Learners and Support Services
(ODLSS).

. On or before October 1, 2017, the school must demonstrate to l&l full resolution of facility and ADA
issues.

AUTHORIZATION: Authorize the General Counsel to include relevant terms and conditions, including any
indemnities to be provided to the charter school, in the written Charter School Agreement and wind down
agreement for the charter school. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the written Charter
School Agreement and wind down agreement for the charter school. Authorize the Interim Executive
Director of the Office of Innovation and Incubation to issue a letter notifying the Illinois State Board of
Education of the action(s) approved hereunder and to submit the approved proposal and signed Charter
School Agreement to the illinois State Board of Education for certification. Authorize the General Counsel
to further negotiate and execute any amendments to the Charter School Agreement as required by the
Illinois State Board of Education. Authorize the Interim Executive Director of the Office of Innovation and
Incubation to issue a letter notifying the Illinois State Board of Education and the Illinois State Charter
School Commission of the revocation of the charter and the Charter School Agreement and any other
information as may be necessary due to the closure of the charter school.

LSC REVIEW: Approval of Local School Council is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL: The ?nancial implications will be addressed during the development of the 2048-2049 2020?
292?1 ?scal year budget. Since the School Code of Illinois prohibits the incurring of any liability unless an
appropriation has been previously made, expenditures beyond FYts? are deemed to be contingent
liabilities only, subject to appropriation in subsequent ?scal year budgets.

19-1211-EX3

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the inspector General of the Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations. 

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
Provisions of 105 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one-year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
office.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to
time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Approved for Consideration: Approved:

Bing A. ani .Ja ksonl
Chief olio Officer

Ch' xecu ve Officer

     



I December 11, 2019

DEBARMENT OF AMBER BEDOLLA
THE CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING RECOMMENDATION:

That the Board of Education of the City of Chicago (?Board?) permanently debar Amber Bedolla
(?Respondent?) from doing any business with the Board.

The Board's Chief Procurement Officer served Respondent with a Notice of Proposed Debarment on
September 6, 2019, initiating debarment proceedings against Respondent based on Sections 2(9) and 2(k)
of the Board?s Debarment Policy for her refusal to cooperate with the Board's investigation and for conduct
deemed to affect the responsibility of the Respondent. Specifically, Respondent was found to have
engaged in inappropriate contact with a student while Respondent was serving as a vendor employee at
Benito Juarez Community Academy. Further, Respondent was found to have avoided contact with CPS
Law Department Investigations Unit during its investigation of this matter. Respondent failed to submit a
written response to the Notice as required by Section 4(d) of the Board?s Debarment Policy. As such, all
allegations in the Notice are deemed admitted. See Debarment Policy, The Chief Operating Officer
has reviewed the record (as defined in Section 4.5(10) of the Debarment Policy), including Investigative
Report No. 8469, and recommends permanent debarment.

Based on the facts set forth in the record as defined in Section 4.5(10) of the Board?s Debarment Policy,
the Chief Operating Officer recommends that the Board permanently debar Respondent from doing any
business with the Board effective immediately. All existing contracts between the Board and Respondent
are terminated. Respondent is ineligible to act as a subcontractor or supplier to any existing or future Board
contracts.

The Board adopts and approves the recommendation of the Chief Operating Officer.

LSC REVIEW: approval is not applicable to this report.
AFFIRMATIVE

ACTION STATUS: Affirmative Action review is not applicable to this report.
FINANCIAL: None.

GENERAL

CONDITIONS: None.

APPROVED:

ARNALDO RIVERA
Chief Operating Officer

 

19-1211-AR2

December 11, 2019

DEBARMENT OF CHICAGO CONTEMPORARY DANCE THEATRE INC.
THE CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING RECOMMENDATION:

That the Board of Education of the City of Chicago (?Board") permanently debar Chicago Contemporary
Dance Theatre inc. (?Respondent?) from doing any business with the Board.

Follov'ving the Of?ce of the-Inspector General's recommendations in Report No. 17-02079, the
Board?s Chief Procurement Of?cer served Respondent with a Notice of Proposed Debarment (?Notice?) on
June 26, 2018. The Notice initiated debarment proceedings against Respondent based on its conduct in
aiding in the hiring of an unlicensed teacher in violation of illinois State Law 105 ILCS and
without a background check, in violation on lliinois State Law 105 ILCS Respondent allowed the
unlicensed teacher to use Respondent's vendor number to seek payment from the Boa-rd. Respondent
additionally faiied to cooperate with OlG?s investigation by refusing to provide requested responsive
information. Respondent's failure to cooperate with OlG?s investigation violated the terms of its contract with
the Board. The Notice sought to debar Respondent from further operating as a vendor with the Board.
Pursuant to sections 2(f) and of the Board?s debarment policy, adopted by Board Report 08-1217-PO1
and subsequently updated by Board Report 19-0626-PO1 the bases for debarment include ?refusal to
cooperate with OIG in an investigation" and ?refusal to cooperate with reasonable requestsof Board
inspectors, representatives, or other personnei with respect to work under contract provisions, plans, or
specifications, or otherwise.? Debarment Policy, 2(f) and respectiveiy. On September 16, 2019, the
Chief Operating Of?cer denied Respondent?s request for a hearing. The Chief Operating Officer has
reviewed the record (as de?ned in section of the debarment policy) and recommends permanent
debarment. 

Based on the facts set forth in the record as de?ned in Section of the Board?s debarment policy
including but not limited to OIG Report 17?02079 and Respondent?s Answer to the Notice, the Chief
Operating Of?cer recommends that the Board adopt the ?ndings of the OIG and permanently debar
Respondent from doing any business with the Board effective immediately. All existing contracts between the
Board and Respondent, if any, are terminated, Respondent is ineligible to act as a subcontractor or suppiier
to any existing or future Board contracts.

The Board adopts and approves the recommendation of the Chief Operating Officer.

LSC REVIEW: LSC approval is not applicable to this report.
AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION STATUS: Af?rmative Action review is not applicable to this report.
FINANCIAL: None.
GENERAL
CONDITIONS: None.

APPROVED:

WW

ARNALDO RIVERA
Chief Operating Of?cer

APPROVED AS: 0 ORM:

N1

 



December 11, 2019

OF CHRISTOPHER HEAD
THE CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING RECOMMENDATION:

-That the Board of Education of the City of Chicago (?Board") permanently debar Christopher Head
(?Respondent?) from doing any business with the Board.

Following the Of?ce of the Inspector General?s April 13, 2018 recommendations in Report No. 18-
200207, the Board?s Chief Procurement Of?cer served Respondent with a Notice of Proposed Debarment
("Notice?) on August 10, 2018. The Notice initiated debarment proceedings against Respondent based on
his conduct involving a physical altercation and use of offensive language with another Board employee in
front of students, in violation of the Board?s Rules for a Respectful, Violence Free Workplace and Learning
Environment pursuant to Chapter IV Section 4 and resulting designation as a Do Not Hire on January 17,
2013. The Notice sought to debar Respondent from further of?ciating any Board sponsored athletic games
pursuant to and of the Board?s debarment policy, adopted by Board Report 
and subsequently updated by Board Report The bases for debarment include ?violation of
ethical standards established by the Board" and "any other cause that the Board, in its sole discretion,
deems so serious or of such a compelling nature that it affects the responsibility of the vendor, including
facilitating another vendor?s violation of any Board Rule, Board policy, Board contract, or any federal, state,
or local law relating to public contracting.? Debarment Policy, and respectively. The Chief
Operating Of?cer has reviewed the record (as de?ned in section of the debarment policy) and
recommends permanent debarment.

Based on the facts set forth in the record as de?ned in Section of the Board?s debarment policy,
including but 'not limited to OIG Report No. 18-20020? and Respondent?s Answer to the Notice, the Chief
Operating Of?cer recommends that the Board adopt the findings of the OIG and permanently debar
Respondent from doing any business with the Board effective immediately. All existing contracts between the
Board and Respondent, if any, are terminated. Respondent is ineligible to act as a subcontractor or supplier
to any existing or future Board contracts. .

The Board adopts and approves the recommendation of the Chief Operating Of?cer.

LSC REVIEW: LSC approval is not applicable to this report.
AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION STATUS: Affirmative Action review is not applicable to this report.
FINANCIAL: None.
GENERAL
CONDITIONS: None.

APPROVED:

Mix

ARNALDO RIVERA
Chief Operating Of?cer

APPROVED GAL FORM:

. 
?y 4?



Genera! Coun -I . .

19-1211-PR1 December 11, 2019

AUTHORIZE A NEW AGREEMENT WITH THORSEN CONSULTING, INC. FOR DEVELOPMENT AND
HOSTING OF THE GOCPS WAITLISTIOFFER MODULE

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize a new agreement with Thorsen Consulting, Inc. for the development and hosting of GOCPS
Waitlist/Offer Module for the Of?ce of Access and Enrollment (OAE) at an estimated annual cost set forth
in the Compensation Section of this report. Vendor was selected on a competitive basis pursuant to
Board Rule 7-3. A written agreement for Vendor's services is currently being negotiated. No services shall
be provided by Vendor and no payment shall be made to Vendor prior to the execution of their written
agreement. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written agreement is
not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this agreement is
stated below.

Contract Administrator Kestel?Kolstad, Miss Kayla I 773?553-2280

VENDOR:
1) Vendor# 51461

THORSEN CONSULTING, INC.
436 Grove Court

Batavia, IL 60510

Molly Connolly
630 454-4100

Ownership: Molly Connolly -100%

USER INFORMATION 

Project

Manager: 11201 - Access and Enrollment
42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Huntley, Ms. Tyeise A
773-553-3546

PM Contact:

11201 - Access and Enrollment
42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602

Howard, Mr. Tony 

773-553-3546

19-1211-PR1

TERM:
The term of this agreement shall commence on January 26, 2020 and shall end January 25, 2021. This
agreement shall have two (2) options to renew for periods of one (1) each.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Vendor will provide the services listed below:

1. Waitlist/offer module website enhancements.2. Data export process from new Aspen Student
Information System3. Selection data/process set-up, support, and quality assurance.

DELIVERABLES:

Vendor will enable OAE to process selections and provide offers for Choice High Schools, Choice
Elementary Schools, Selective Enrollment High Schools, Selective Enrollment Elementary Schools.
Vendor will also deliver language changes and administrator console enhancements to the 
Waitlist/offer module website.

OUTCOMES:
Vendor's services will result in parents, school administrators, and CPS Central Office administrators
having the ability to issue and manage offers to various school-based programs managed by CPS.

COMPENSATION:
Vendor shall be paid as follows: Estimated annual costs for the one (1) year term are set forth below:

FY20 - $204,375
FY21 $9,500

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:
None

AUTHORIZATION: . .

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreement.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement. Authorize Executive Director of
Enrollment and Education Policy to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate
this agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services contracts, (MNVBE Program), this contract is in full compliance with the Business
Diversity goals the Prime vendor is 100% WBE.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Unit 11201, Office of Access and Enrollment

Fund 115 

FY20 $204,375

FY21 $9,500

Not to exceed $213,875 for the one (1) year term.

Future yearfunding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

19-1211-PR1

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
office.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02). as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

Approved for Consideration: Approved:

i
gm- 1C :l/J ?ax/L
JONATHAN MAPLES JANICE K. JACKSON
Chief Procurement Of?cer Chief Executive Officer

Approved as to Legal Form:$

grit/44?

JOSEPH T. MORIARTY
General Counsel

 December 11, 2019

AUTHORIZE A NEW AGREEMENT WITH ECRA GROUP INCORPORATED FOR STUDENT GROWTH
MEASURE SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize a new agreement with ECRA Group Incorporated to provide student growth measure services
to all schools at an estimated annual cost set forth in the Compensation Section of this report. Vendor
was selected on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-3. A written agreement for Vendor's
services is currently being negotiated. No services shall be provided by Vendor and no payment shall be
made to Vendor prior to the execution of their written agreement. The authority granted herein shall
automatically rescind in the event a written agreement is not executed within 90 days of the date of this
Board Report. Information pertinent to this agreement is stated below.

Contract Administrator Banks, Ms. Jasmine 773-553?2280
VENDOR:

1) Vendor 80157
ECRA GROUP INCORPORATED
1475 E. WOODFIELD RD 14TH FLR

SCHAUMBURG, IL 60173

Nanzi Perez
847 318-0072

Ownership: For Pro?t: Tagat Holdings, Inc -
100%

USER INFORMATION 

Project 
Manager: 10811 - Office of School Quality Measurement

42 Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602

Broom, Mr. Jeffrey Clarkson
773-553-5062

TERM:

The term of this agreement shall commence on January 1, 2020 and shall and December 31, 2020. This
agreement shall have two (2) options to renew for periods of twelve (12) months each.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT:
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Student growth measures will compare students with similar characteristics to see how students grow

relative to each other and to capture the impact of instruction on student outcomes. Statistical models

developed for student growth will provide CPS with an unbiased estimate of instructional effectiveness



based on standardized test score results. This is critical in providing fair and accurate growth ratings for
use in our teacher evaluation system and SQRP.

Student growth measures will be computed at the school, grade, teacher, network, and student group
levels for both the NWEA MAP and PARCCassessments. The NWEA MAP results will be used in
teacher evaluation calculations, while both sets of results will be used to help CPS assess growth at
schools throughout the District. Vendor will also provide consultation and professional development to
CPS personnel to better understand the student growth models and how to effectively use them in an
accountability system.

DELIVERABLES:

In addition to student growth measures vendor will continue to provide consultation and professional
development to CPS personnel to better understand the student growth models and to effectively use
them in an accountability system.

OUTCOMES:

Vendor's services will result in providing a necessary component of CPS's teacher evaluation system.
Student growth measures are based on complex statistical formulae that CPS does not have expertise
and capacity to calculate internally. Vendor will provide valuable data for use in better understanding
patterns of academic growth among CPS students. Expanding investigations into a PARCC student
growth measure helps CPS better evaluate how students are progressing against State-level standards.
Student growth measures developed for CPS are completely customized to CPS's needs.

COMPENSATION:
Vendor shall be paid as follows: Estimated annual costs for the one (1) year term are set forth below:

FY20, $210,000
FY21, $20,000

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:
None

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreement.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement. Authorize the Director of School Quality
Measurements to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services Contracts Program), this vendor is exempt from MWBE review as this
agreement is for Proprietary Software.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Fund 115

Of?ce of School Quality Measurement

Unit 10811

FY20, $210,000

FY21, $20,000

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

 R2

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations. .

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
office.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-P03), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budgeus)

Approved for Consideration: Approved:
JONATHAN MAPLES JANICE K. JACKSON
Chief Procurement Officer Chief Executive Officer

Approved as to Legal Formx$

5W 

JOSEPH T. MOREARTY
General Counsel

19-1211-PR3 . December 11, 2019

AUTHORIZE THE SECOND AND FINAL RENEWAL AGREEMENTS WITH VARIOUS CONTRACTORS
TO PROVIDE VARIOUS TRADES WORK OVER $10,000 FOR THE OPERATIONS AN
MAINTENANCE PROGRAM 

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the second and ?nal renewal agreements with various Contractors to provide various trades
services for operations and maintenance work over $10,000 at an estimated annual cost set forth in the
Compensation Section of this report. Written documents exercising this option are currently being
negotiated. No services shall be provided by and no payment shall be made to any Contractor prior to the
execution of their written renewal document. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind as to
each Contractor in the event a written document is not executed within 120 days of the date of this Board
Report. Information pertinent to this option is stated below.

Speci?cation Number 15-350032, 16-350022, 17-350011, 18-350051

Contract Administrator Gilliam, Mr. Stephen 773-553-2280

USER INFORMATION 

Project
Manager: 11880 - Facility Opers Maint - City Wide

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Christlieb, Mr. Robert M.
773-553-2960

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original agreements (authorized by Board Report 15-1216-PR6 as amended by Board Reports
16-0427-PR5, and 17-0322-PR5) in the amount of $57,000,000 were for a
term commencing January 1, 2016 and ending December 31, 2018, with the Board having two (2) options
to renew for one year terms. The ?rst renewal agreement (authorized by Board Report 
as amended by Board Report 19-0227-PR3) in the amount of $52,500,000 for a term commencing
January 1, 2019 and ending December 31, 2019. The original agreements were awarded on a
competitive basis pursuant to former Board Rule 7-2.

OPTION PERIOD:
The term of this agreement is being renewed for one (1) year commencing January 1, 2020 and ending
December 31, 2020.

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There are no option periods remaining.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Contractors will continue to provide various trades work for the Operations and Maintenance Program for
projects over $10,000 at Board facilities. The category of services for which each Contractor is
pre-quali?ed is identi?ed in the attached list.

 R3

DELIVERABLES:
Contractors will continue to provide various trades services for operations and maintenance work over
$10,000 at an estimated annual cost set forth in the Compensation Section of this report.

OUTCOMES:
Contractors' services will result in the cost effective maintenance of Board facilities for these
miscellaneous trades services not covered by other pool contracts.

USE OF POOL:

The Department of Facility Operations and Maintenance, Capital Planning Construction and the
Department of Safety and Security, shall cause bid solicitations to be issued to the pre-quali?ed
contractors for the types of services as needed. Bids will be awarded to the lowest, responsive,
responsible contractor and awards made through issuance of a purchase order by the Chief Procurement
Officer or his designee. Bids shall be deposited and opened in the Chicago Public Schools Department of
Procurement. All Bid Notices are posted on the Department of Procurement website:


COMPENSATION:

The sum of payments to all Contractors for the pre-quali?cation period January 1, 2020 and ending
December 31, 2020, inclusive of all labor, materials and supplies, shall not exceed $30,000,000 in the
aggregate.

FY 20 $15,000,000
FY 21 $15,000,000

All expenditures made to the pre~qualified Contractors hereunder shall be reported to the Board on a
quarterly basis pursuant to former Board Rule 7?8.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
documents. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option documents. Authorize Chief
Operating Officer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate the option
documents.

AF FIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women Business Enterprise Participation in
Construction contracts Program), the goals for this pool are 30% MBE and 7% WBE.
This vendor pool is comprised of 113 vendors with 36 MBEs and 11 WBEs. The User Group has
committed to achieve the Business Diversity goals through the utilization of the certified diverse suppliers
and certified diverse subcontractors. Aggregated compliance of the contractors in the pool will be reported
on a quarterly basis.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Fund: Various Capitat Funds: Unit 12150
Department of Facilities: Unit: 11800

Of?ce of School Safety and Security: Unit 10600

FY20 $15,000,000
FY21 $15,000,000

19-1211-PR3

Not to exceed $30,000,000 for the one (1) year term. Future year funding is contingent upon budget
appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access-to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-PO3), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-PO2), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

Approved for Consideration: Approved:

[2307? icjwc
JONATHAN MAPLES EANICE K. JACKSON

Chief Procurement Officer Chief Executive Officer

Approved as to Legal Form:$

aw r/Wy

JOSEPH T. MORIARTY
General Counsel

19-1211-PR3

1)

2)

3)

4)

5)

Vendor 68849
ACCURATE GENERAL CONTRACTOR

4440 NORTH KOSTNER AVE.
CHICAGO, IL 60630

William V. Nino

773 594-1122

Trades: All Trades (General Contracting),
Ownership: William V. Nino - 100%

Vendor 16575
ADV BUILDERS INC

901 E. SUTH BROADWAY AVE, UNIT 
LOMBARD, IL 60148

Carlos Navas

630 815-3618

Trades: Floor Covering Installation, Floor
Wood (Re?nishing and Repair), Carpenter, All
Trades (General Contracting) Ownership: 7)
Carlos Navas - 100%

Vendor 32277
ADVANCED WIRING SOLUTIONS, INC.

4838 WEST 128TH PLACE
ALSIP, IL 60803

Michael Sanfratello

708 385-0916

Trades: Communications Electrician and 8)
Electrician Ownership: Michael Sanfratello -
100%

Vendor 89040
ALL TECH ENERGY INC

1000 EAST STATE PARKWAY, STE 
SCHAUMBURG, IL 60173

Kathy Esposito

847 882?0500

Trades: Electrician, Ownership: Kathy
Esposito - 100%

Vendor 96106
AMALGAMATED SERVICES INC

110 GOLFVIEW LN. UNIT 
FRANKFORT, IL 60423
Karen M. Riffice

708 417-5946

Trades: Plumbing, HVAC, Pipe?tter
Ownership: Karen M. Riffice 100%

Vendor 32308
A.M.C. MECHANICAL, INC.

11535 WEST 183RD PLACE, UNIT 106
ORLAND PARK, IL 60467

Sylvia E. Lopez

708 479-4678

Trades: HVAC, Pipe?tting, Ownership: Slyia E.
Lopez - 51% and Anthony R. Lopez - 49%

Vendor 29689
ANCHOR MECHANICAL, INC.

255 CALIFORNIA AVE
CHICAGO, IL 60612
Jack Winters

312 492-6994

Trades: All Trades (General Contracting)

Ownership: Michael Rosner- 100%

Vendor 31390
ANDEE BOILER WELDING COMPANY

7649 9 STATE STREET
CHICAGO, IL 60619-2316
Jeffrey J. Murphy

773 874?9020

Trades: HVAC, Boiler Makers and Pipefitting,
Ownership: Jeffrey J. Murphy - 50% and
Timothy R. Murphy - 50%



10)

11)

12)

13)
Vendor 16582
ANTIGUA INC DBA ANTIGUA
CONSTRUCTION INC

3604 N. LAVERGNE
CHICAGO, IL 60641
Edith De La Cruz
773 993-0755

Trades: Carpenter, Ceiling Tile Installer,
Electrician, Cement Mason, Floor covering,
HVAC, Painter, Plumber, Plasterer, Sign 14)
Hanger Ownership: Edith De La Cruz - 100%

Vendor 94881
APRIL BUILDING SERVICES, INC

22W274 IRVING PARK RD.
ROSELLE, IL 60172

Greg Bodin

630 373-7666

Trades: Tuckpointer Ownership: Carmen 15)
Guzman 100%

Vendor 24385
ARGO ELECTRIC INC

1007 NORTH ELLSWORTH AVENUE
VILLA PARK, IL 60181

Edward J. Walantas

630 833-9925

Trades: Electrician Ownership: Janet M.
Walantas - 50% and Susan M. Sulkowski - 50%6)

Vendor 11380
B.E.T.O.N. CONSTRUCTION COMPANY

1415 37TH ST
CHICAGO, IL 60609
Violetta Gutowska
773 823-1145

Trades: Masonry and Finishing, Laborers,
Ownership: Violetta Gutowska - 100%

Vendor 180501
B3 iNtergrated Solutions, Inc

6500 65TH ST SUITE 200
CHICAGO, IL 60638

Jason Bonaparte

773 788-0900

Trades: Electrician Ownership: Dr. Helena
Bonaparte - 100%

Vendor 99275
BEDCO MECHANICAL, INC.

546 ZENITH DRIVE
GLENVIEW, IL 60025
Jeffrey Bendnarz

847 297?2665

Trades: HVAC Ownership: Jeffrey Bednarz-
100%

Vendor 31784 
BLINDERMAN CONSTRUCTION INC.

224 DESPLAINES ST
CHICAGO, IL 60661
Steve Blinderman

312 982-2602

Trades: All Trades (General Contracting),
Ownership: Steve Blinderman?50% and David
BIinderman-50%

Vendor 42778
BROADWAY ELECTRIC INC

831 OAKTON STREET

ELK GROVE VILLAGE, IL 60007-1904
John Oehler

847 593-0001

Trades: Communications Electrician,
Electrician, All Trades (General Contracting)
Ownership: John Oehler - 100 



17)

18)

19)

20)

21)
Vendor 34765
BUCKEYE CONSTRUCTION CO INC

7827 S. CLAREMONT AVENUE
CHICAGO, IL 60620

Vincent L. Di?ore

773 778-8583

Trades: All Trades (General Contracting),
Ownership: Michael V. DiFiore - 50% and
Vincent L. DiFiore 50%

Vendor 23277 22)
BUILDERS CHICAGO CORPORATION

9820 FOSTER AVENUE
ROSEMONT, IL 60018
Timothy Hanisch

224 654-2122

Trades: Carpenter, Iron Worker, Ornamental
Iron Worker, Electrician Ownership: Richard
C. Crandall Jr -100%

Vendor 16143
CANDOR ELECTRIC 23)

7825 CLAREMONT
CHICAGO, IL 60620
Vincent J. Difiore

773 778-2626

Trades: Communications Electrician And
Electrician, Electric Power Ownership: Vincent
J. DiFiore - 100%

Vendor 12157 24)
CARPETING ET CETERA INC

11911 118TH STREET
PALOS PARK, IL 60464
Steve Cetera

708 448-0404

Trades: Carpentry, Floor Covering Ownership:
Sharon Cetera 100%

Vendor 11300
CARROLL SEATING COMPANY

2105 LUNT AVE.

ELK GROVE VLG., IL 60007
Alex Klopp

847 434-0909

Trades: All Trades (General Contracting)
Ownership: Northern Trust Company Trustee,
Thomas McMahon 45.25%, Patrick Carroll 
4.9, and multiple shareholders all under 

Vendor 12256
JV

9101 South Baltimore Ave
Chicago, IL 60617
Jennifer L. Cullen

773 721 -2500

Trades: All Trades (General Contracting)
Ownership: Sharlen Electric -50% and 
Holdings, Inc. dba Chicago Commercial
Construction - 50% 

Vendor 98689
CORE MECHANICAL, INC

4632 W. LAWRENCE AVE
CHICAGO, IL 60630

Lisa Sheehy

773 267-6300

Trades: All Trades (General Contracting),
Ownership: Jesse Richardson - 100%

Vendor 65662
COURTESY ELECTRIC, INC

6535 N. OLMSTED AVE.
CHICAGO, IL 60631
Matthew Ryan

773 649-5040

Trades: Communications Electrician,
Electrician Ownership: Matthew Ryan -100%



19-121129)
Vendor 17255
CPMH CONSTRUCTION, INC.

3129 S. SHIELDS
CHICAGO, IL 60616
Conrado Perez

312 929-2345

Trades: Cement Mason, Laborer, Landscaper,
Operating Engineer Bid 1?7, Operating

Engineer HWY 1-7, Truck Driver 1-4, and
Plumber, Traffic Safety Worker Ownership: 30)
Conrado Perez- 51% and Michael Hope 49%

Vendor 18216
CREA CONSTRUCTION INC

433 W. Harrison
CHICAGO, IL 60680-3161
Rea Johnson

312 371-3827

Trades: All Trades (General Contracting)
Ownership: Rea Johnson - 100% 31)

Vendor 23669
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE, INC.

14538 8. WESTERN
POSEN, IL 60469
Daniel Cronin

708 293?1272

Trades: All Trades (General Contracting),
Ownership: Daniel D. Cronin - 100% 32)

Vendor 94694
DEPUE MECHANICAL, INC

113 RIDGE RD
MINOOKA, IL 60447
Jim Jacobsen

815 255-2500

Trades: HVAC, Pipefitting Ownership: James
Jacobsen Jr. - 50% and Tom Harrigan - 50%

Vendor 17282
DRIVE CONSTRUCTION, INC

7235 S. FERFINAND
BRIDGEVIEW, IL 60455
Eduardo Cortez

708 546?2591

Trades: All Trades (General Contracting)
Ownership: Gerardo Cortez - 100%

Vendor 96868
ECO LIGHTING SERVICES TECHNOLOGY,
LLC

4161 166TH ST STE A
OAK FOREST, IL 60452
Debra Naybar

630 628?4280

Trades: Communications Electrician and
Electrician Ownership: Debra Naybar - 100%

Vendor 69846 
ROOFING COMPANY, LLC

4234 WEST 124TH PLACE
ALSIP, IL 60803

James Figora

708 597-5338

Trades: Roofing, Ownership: James M. Figora
- 50% and Brad Grove - 50%

Vendor 76326
F.H. PASCHEN, S.N. NIELSEN 
ASSOCIATES, LLC

5515 N. EAST RIVER RD.
CHICAGO, IL 60656
Charles Freiheit Jr.

773 444-3474

Trades: All Trades (General Contracting)
Ownership: FHP TR Trust No. 1 James
Blair- 18%, and various others under 5%



33)

34)

35)

36)

37)
Vendor 11733
FIRST SECURITY COMMUNICATIONS
SALES, INC. DBA FIRST SECURITY
SYSTEMS, INC.

1811 HIGH GROVE. STE 191
NAPERVILLE, IL 60540

John Cain

630 961-5900x140

Trades: Communications Electrician
Ownership: James Giacchetti - 50% and Gary
PIicInta - 50%

38)

Vendor 97194
FRONTLINE SEWER AND WATER
SPECIALIST, INC.

1402 SOUTH 18TH AVE.
MAYWOOD, IL 60153
Jonathan Murray

773 621-1076

Trades: Plumber, Ownership: Jonathan
Murray - 100%
39)

Vendor 17251
ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS, INC

PO. BOX 209161
CHICAGO, IL 60620
Gregory T. Howell
773 488~1430

Trades: Electrician Ownership: Gregory T..
Howell-100%
40)

Vendor 20242
GALAXY ENVIRONMENTAL, INC.

3565 NORTH MILWAUKEE AVE.
CHICAGO, IL 60641

George Salinas

773 427-2980

Trades: All Trades (General Contracting)
Ownership: George A. Salinas 100%

Vendor 17958
GREATLINE COMMUNICATIONS

PO. BOX 1452

SOUTH HOLLAND, IL 60473
Joseph Blandford

708 331-8707

Trades: Communications Electrician and
Electrician Ownership: Blandford -
75%, Joseph Blandford - 10%, David Schaefer
10% and Cindy Jorgens - 5% 

Vendor 30083
GROVE MASONRY MAINTENANCE, INC

4234 WEST 124TH PLACE

ALSIP, IL 60803
Brade Grove
708 385?0225

Trades: Brick masonry, Marble Mason,
Cement Mason, Laborer, and Tuckpointing
(Brick Mason), Ownership: Brad Grove 100%

Vendor 32495
HARDY CORPORATION

711 WEST 103 RD STREET
CHICAGO, IL 60628
Kimberly Hardy-Spaulding
773 779-6600

Trades: All Trades (General Contracting),
Ownership: Kim Spaulding - 100%

Vendor 23310
HUDSON BOILER TANK CO

3101 8 STATE ST
LOCKPORT, IL 60441
Brent Tillman

312 666-4780

Trades: HVAC, Boilermakers Ownership: Ed
Hoveke - 100%



41)

42)

43)

44)
Vendor 13288
IDEAL HEATING COMPANY

9515 SOUTHVIEW AVE
BROOKFILED, IL 60513
Charles M. Usher Jr.
708 680-5000

Trades: All Trades (General Contracting),
HVAC Ownership: Charles M. Usher- 52%,
Andrew L. Usher? 24% and Edward M. Usher
24%

45)
Vendor 69613
IMPERIAL LIGHTING MAINTENANCE
COMPANY

4555 NORTH ELSTON AVE.
CHICAGO, IL 60630

Todd Mendelsohn

773 794-1150

Trades: Communications Electrician and
Electrician Ownership: Cary Mendelsohn 
100% 46)

Vendor 13332
INDEPENDENT MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES
INC

4155 N. KNOX AVENUE
CHICAGO, IL 60641 -1915
Ronald F. Marshall

773 282?4500

Trades: HVAC, Pipe?tting, Boilermakers, 47)
Laborer, and Brick Masons Ownership: John

M. Reynolds - 62.55%, Joseph P. Reynolds 
33.02% and Ronald F. Marshall - 4.43%

Vendor 27990
INTERSTATE ELECTRONICS COMPANY

600 JOLIET ROAD
WILLOWBROOK, IL 60527
Gregory P. Kuzmic

630 789-8700

Trades: Communications Electrician and
Electrician Ownership: Nancy A. Stokes - 42%,
Patricia A. Kuzmic - 48% and Thomas G.
Stokes - 10%

Vendor 44509
IW INC

1022 NORTH AVE

DES PLAINES, IL 60016
Al Arreguin

708 576-8421

Trades: Brick Mason, Ownership: AlArreguin
- 100%

Vendor 94880
IWANSKI MASONRY INC

1000 ROHLWING RD
LOMBARD, IL 60148
Paul Iwanski

630 317?7300

Trades: Masonry and Finishing, Ownership:
Paul Iwanski - 100%

Vendor 47660
J.S.R. ENTERPRISES, INC.

4931 W. 173RD STREET UNIT 
COUNTRY CLUB HILLS, IL 60478
Sharon Roberts

708 206-1800

Trades: Plumber, Operating Eng 1,2,3
Ownership: Sharon Roberts - 51% and Jerry
Roberts - 49%

19-1211-PR3

48)

49)

5Q)

51)

52)
Vendor 38000
JENSEN WINDOW CORP.

7641 100TH PLACE
BRIDGEVIEW, IL 60455
Jeffrey W. Jenson

708 599-5990

Trades: Carpentry and Glazier, Ownership:
Jeffrey W. Jensen 60% and Keith M. Jensen 
40%

53)

Vendor 21217
JONES CLEARY ROOFING CO.,

6838 8 SOUTH CHICAGO AVE
CHICAGO, IL 60637

William J. Cleary 

773 288?6464

Trades: Roo?ng, Sheetmetal Ownership:
William J. Cleary - 100%

Vendor 29871
JONES ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL, INC 54)

19144 S. BLACKHAWK PARKWAY
MOKENA, IL 60448

Joahn Schleicher

815 464-0591

Trades: HVAC, Pipe?tting, Boilermakers and
Brick Mason, Ownership: Joan Schleicher -
100%

Vendor 17428 55)
JR INDUSTRIES, LLC

4218 N. CALIFORNIA
CHICAGO, IL 60618
Jesse Richardson
773 908-531 7

Trades: All Trades (General Contracting)
Ownership: Jesse Richardson- 100%

10

Vendor 23996
K.R. MILLER CONTRACTORS, INC.

1624 COLONIAL PARKWAY
INVERNESS, IL 60067

Keith Miller

847 358?6400

Trades: All Trades (General Contracting)
Ownership: Keith Miller - 100%

Vendor 35959
KNICKERBOCKER ROOFING PAVING CO.,
INC

16851 s. LATHROP STREET
HARVEY, IL 60426

Paul V. Cronin

708 339-7260

Trades: All Trades (General Contracting)
Ownership: Mark Moran 10%, Christopher
Cronin - 23%, Paul Cronin - 22%, Robert
Cronin - 23% and Mark A. Cronin - 22%

Vendor 25247
MARSHALL INC

2100 LEHIGH AVE
GLENVIEW, IL 60026
Lawrence P. Marshall
847 724-5400

Trades: Roo?ng and Sheetmetal Ownership:
Lawrence P. Marshall - 100%

Vendor 30750
L.D. FLOORING 00., NC.

1354 RIDGE AVE

ELK GROVE VILLAGE, IL 60007
Lidia Margeiu

847 364-4467 .

Trades: Floor (Wood), Carpenter Ownership:
Lidia Margeiu - 51% and Emanuel Margelu -
49%



56)

57)

58)

59)

60)
Vendor 36632
LOPEZ AND SONS INC

7813 97TH STREET
HICKORY HILLS, IL 60457
Sandra G. Lopez

708 599-4889

Trades: Carpenter, Floor Covering Installer,
Floor Wood (Re?nishing and Repair), Labor
Work Ownership: Sandra G. Lopez - 100%

61)

Vendor 33924
LOWERY MCDONNELL COMPANY

960 LIVELY BLVD
WOOD DALE, IL 60191
Scott Mills

630 227-1000

Trades: Carpenter, Floor Covering, Labor
Work Ownership: Scott Mills - 33.3%, Richard
dave tatge=333.3%

62)

Vendor 14656
M. W. POWELL COMPANY

3445 LAWNDALE AVE
CHICAGO, IL 60623
Anthony J. Roque

773 247-7438

Trades: Roofer Ownership: Anthony J.

Roque 30.6%, Steven H. Roque - 14.2%,
Joseph C. Roque 14.2%, David Ackely -

14.5% and 10 others with less than 10% 63)
shares.

Vendor 91435
MARKET CONTRACTING SERVICES INC

4201 WEST 36TH STREET, STE 250
CHICAGO, IL 60632

Rajiv Kharma

773 321-7248

Trades: Carpenter, Elevator Constructor,
Painter, Plasterer and Roofer Ownership: J.
Antonio Oliva - 55% and Rajiv Kharma 45%

11

Vendor 25993
MBB ENTERPRISES OF CHICAGO INC

3352 WEST GRAND AVE.
CHICAGO, IL 60651
Janine Barsh

773 278?7100

Trades: All Trades (General Contracting),
Ownership: Janine Barsh - 100%

Vendor 99843
MCDONAGH DEMOLITION INC

7243 W. TOUHY AVE
CHICAGO, IL 60631
Paul Dadian

773 276-7707

Trades: ALL Trades (General Contracting)
Ownership: Geraldine McDonagh - 61%, 7
others less than 6%

Vendor 27286
MECO ELECTRIC COMPANY INC

3717 W. BELMONT AVE.
CHICAGO, IL 60618
Paul R. Micahelsen

773 463?7800

Trades: Communications (Low Voltage Wiring)
and Electrical (High Voltage Wiring)
Ownership: Paul Michaelsen - 100%

Vendor 68462
MEN SEWERS PUMPING AND JETTING,
LLC

1 FRANKLIN STREET, ST 1200
CHICAGO, iL 60606

Pamela Belyn

773 2330500

Trades: Plumber Ownership: Encompass
Property Services - 100%

19-1211-PR3

64)

65)

66)

67)

68)
Vendor 38502
MIDWEST MOVING STORAGE, INC

1255 TONNE ROAD

ELK GROVE VILLAGE, IL 60007
Luis A. Toledo

888 722?6683

Trades: Carpenter, Labor Work Ownership:
Luis A. Toledo - 100%

Vendor 16375 69)
MOLTER CORPORATION

7601 191ST ST
TINLEY PARK, IL 60487
Loretta Molter

708 720-1600

Trades: Brick Mason, Stone Mason, Boiler
Maker, Labor Work, Terrazo Mason and Tile
Mason Ownership: Loretta Molter - 100%

70)
Vendor 12030
MONTEL TECHNOLOGIES, LLC

333 Ohio St Ste 101
Chicago, IL 60654
Ray Monteiongo

815 966-1267

Trades: Communications Electrician: Ray
Monteiongo - 90% and Megan Monteiongo -
10%

71)

Vendor 45621
MURPHY JONES COMPANY

4040 N. NASHVILLE AVENUE
CHICAGO, IL 60634

Edward M. Latko Jr.

773 794-7900

Trades: All Trades (General Contracting)
Ownership: Edward M. Latko, Jr. - 100%

12

Vendor 61234
MVP FIRE SYSTEMS INC

8201 183RD STREET
TINLEY PARK, iL 60487
Robert K. Wasniewski
708 371-1594

Trades: Sprinkler Fitting Ownership: Robert
K. Wasniewski - 90% and Gregory S. Lunak 
10%

- Vendor 65706

MZI BUILDING SERVICES INC
1937 FULTON ST
CHICAGO, IL 60612

Arthur Miller

312 492-8740

Trades: All Trades (General Contracting),
Ownership: Arthur Miller - 100%

Vendor 17772
NATIONAL PAINTING, INC.

2012 W. GRAND AVENUE SUITE 100
CHICAGO, IL 60612

Edyta 

312 446?4554

Trades: Lather, Painter, Plasterer Ownership:
Edyta - 100%

Vendor 17883
OAK BROOK MECHANICAL SERVICES INC

961 SOUTH RT 83
ELMHURST, IL 60126
Mark Sullivan

630 941-3555

Trades: Pipe?tting Ownership: Mark Sullii/an -
50% and Joseph Sullivan 50%

19-1211-PR3

72)

73)

74)

75)

76)
Vendor 14436
OOSTERBAAN SONS COMPANY

2515 147TH ST
POSEN, IL 60469
Gregory T. Oosterbaan
708 371?1020

Trades: Painting Ownership: Brandt
Oosterbaan 50% and Gregory T. Oosterbaan
- 50%

77)
Vendor 49725
PACE SYSTEMS, INC.

2040 CORPORATE LANE
NAPERVILLE, IL 60563
Wayne Liu

630 395-2212

Trades: Communications Electrician and
Electrician (High Voltage Wiring) Ownership:
Wayne Liu - 100%

Vendor 38609 78)
PARKWAY ELEVATORS

2944 w. LAKE ST
CHICAGO, ID 60612
John Posluszny

312 588-7228

Trades: Elevator Construction Ownership:
John Posluszny 100%

Vendor 98724 79)
PAVEMENT SYSTEMS INC

13820 S. CALIFORNIA AVE
BLUE ISLAND, IL 60406
James Land

708 396-8888

Trades: Cement masonry, Laborer, Operating
Engineer HWY 1,2, 5 Ownership: James J.
Land - 33.33%, John E. Land - 33.33% and
Peter (3. Land - 33.33%

13

Vendor 68970
PENTEGRA SYSTEMS, LLC

780 W. BELDEN AVE SUITE A
ADDISON, IL 60101

Edward (3. Karl

630 941-6000

Trades: Communications Electrician
Ownership: Edward G. Karl 50% and Gregoy
Augspurger - 50%

Vendor 25532
PROCOM ENTERPRISES LTD.

951 BUSSE ROAD
ELK GROVE, iL 60007
Jacek Zaworski

888 657-0101

Trades: Communications Electrician
Ownership: Jacek Zaworski - 33.33%, Pawel
Pustelnik - 33.33%, and Grzegorz Maciolek -
33.33%

Vendor 23503
QU-BAR, INC.

4163 WEST 166TH STREET
OAK FOREST, IL 60452
Walter Choksi

708 339-8360

Trades: HVAC Ownership: Niranjan S.
Choksi - 100%

Vendor 17293
QU-BAR MECHANICAL, LLC

4163 W. 166TH ST STE A
OAK FOREST, IL 60452
Pam Chokski

708 331-9130

Trades: HVAC, Pipe?tter Ownership: Pam
Chokski - 51% and Walter Chokski - 49%



80)

81)

82)

83)

84)
Vendor 32334
QUANTUM CROSSINGS, LLC

111 EAST WACKER DRIVE, SUITE 990
CHICAGO, IL 60601

Roger J. Martinez

312 467-0065

Trades: Communications Electrician and
Electrician (High Voltage Wiring) Ownership:
Roger J. Martinez - 51% and Thomas R.
Donovan - 49%

85)

Vendor 68006
R.J. OLMEN COMPANY

3200 WEST LAKE AVE
GLENVIEW, IL 60026
Stanley Olmen

847 724-0994

Trades: HVAC Ownership: Stanley Olmen -
41%, Wendy Olmen 41% and Patricia Olmen
- 18%

Vendor 18218 86)
HVAC INC

15020 SO. CICERO AVE STE 205
OAK FOREST, IL 60452

Danielle Newton

708 897-9898

Trades: HVAC, Sheet Metal Worker
Ownership: Ron Newton - 50% and Danielie
Newton - 50%

87)
Vendor 16617
REFLECTIVE ROOFING LLC

3816 LIZETTE LN
GLENVIEW, IL 60026
Erik Erikson

847 370?6550

Trades: Roofer Ownership: Erik Erikson -
100%

14

Vendor 27686 
RELIABLE ASSOCIATES CONSTRUCTION
COMPANY

4106 EMERALD AVE
CHICAGO, IL 60609
Mark Giebelhausen
312 666-3626

Trades: All Trades (General Contracting)
Ownership: Linval J. Chung - 100%

Vendor 30989
RENAISSANCE COMMUNICATION
SYSTEMS, INC

3509 MARTENS ST.
FRANKLIN PARK, IL 60131
Michael Shares

847 671 -1 340

Trades: Communications Electrician and
Electrician (High Voltage Wiring) Ownership:
Jerry Joyce - 33.33%, John Stefands 33.33%,
and Nancy Shares - 33.33% 

Vendor 98713 I
RESTORE MASONRY, LLC

999 E. TOUHY AVE, STE 450
DESPLAINES, IL 60018

Larry Vacala

847 813-6821

Trades: All Trades (General Contracting)
Ownership: Larry Vacala - 100%

Vendor 97994
RIVERSIDE MECHANICAL SERVICES, INC

885 LAMBRECHT RD, UNIT 1
FRANKFORT, IL 60423
Christine A. Sehring, Esq.

815 464?7446

Trades: HVAC, Pipe?tting Ownership:
Chri?stine A. Sehring 100%



88)

89)

90)

91)

92)
Vendor 18226
ROGERWILCO INC DBA SERVPRO OF
RAVENSWOOD

5401 WOLCOTT AVE
CHICAGO, IL 60640
Tom Williams

773 878-5200

Trades: Laborer Ownership: Tom Williams-
100%

Vendor 16641 93)
SANDSMITH VENTURE

145 TOWER DR

BURR RIDGE, IL 60527
Clarke Hockney

630 455-0610

Trades: Brick Mason, Cement Mason, Ceramic
Tile Finisher Ownership: SBK - 50% and
Sandsmith Masonry - 50%

94)
Vendor 43999
SOUTHWEST INDUSTRIES INC, DBA
ANDERSON ELEVATOR COMPANY

2801 SOUTH 19TH AVENUE
BROADVIEW, IL 60155-4758
Gregory V. Gibbs Jr

708 345-9710

Trades: Elevator Constructor Ownership:
Gregory V. Gibbs 100%
95)

Vendor 62716
STAALSEN CONSTRUCTION COMPANY INC

4639 W. ARMITAGE AVENUE
CHICAGO, IL 60639

Kenneth Klint

773 637-1 116

Trades: All Trades (General Contracting)
Ownership: Charles McWherter - 75% and Ken
and Ruth Klint 25%

15

Vendor 26041
STANTON MECHANICAL INC

170 GAYLORD

ELK GROVE VILLAGE, IL 60007
James Stanton

847 434-5100

Trades: Sheet Metal Worker, Pipe?tting,
Boilermakers, and Plumbing Ownership:
Linda A. Stanton 50% and James J. Stanton -
100%

Vendor 23957
PLUMBING, INC.

5251 BELMONT AVENUE
CHICAGO, IL 60641
Catherine Freihage

773 545-4422

Trades: Plumbing Ownership: Michelle
Freihage - 100%

Vendor 17248
THINK GENIUS LLC

616 E. 71 ST
CHICAGO, IL 60619
James Webb Jr.

872 244-7233

Trades: Carpenter, Plasterer, Painter
Ownership: James Webb Jr. - 100%

Vendor 28113
TOP BUILDERS INC

3211 DELL PL.
GLENVIEW, IL 60025
Kevin Sung K. Lee
773 343-4119

Trades: All Trades (General Contracting)
Ownership: Kevin Lee - 100%

19-1211-PR3

96)

97)

98)

99)

100)
Vendor 15399
TYLER LANE CONSTRUCTION INC

8700 W. BRYN MAWR, STE 620M
CHICAGO, IL 60631

Larry Vacala

773 588-4500

Trades: All Trades (General Contracting)
Ownership: Larry Vacala - 100%

Vendor 84487
UNIVERSAL LIGHTING OF AMERICA, INC 101)

17646 MORSE STREET
LOWELL, IN 46356
Christopher Heun

219 696?4100

Trades: Electrician Ownership: Christopher
Heun - 100%

Vendor 18219 .
UPTOWN PAINTING CONTRUCTION INC.

6712 N. CLARK ST. 2ND FLOOR 102)
CHICAGO, IL 60626

Salvador Sebastian

773 973?6435

Trades: Painter Ownership: Salvador
Sebastian - 100%

Vendor 22445
NEWCASTLE TUCKPOINTING, INC. DBA
THE NEWCASTLE COMPANY

1800 NORTH 78TH AVE 103)
ELMWOOD PARK, iL 60707

William Marrero

773 837-4876

Trades: All Trades (General Contracting)
Ownership: William Marrero 100%

16

Vendor 34919

BUILT RITE CONSTRUCTION DBA
CERVANTES SALGADO ARCHITECTURAL
WOODWORKING

1001 AUCUTT RD SUITE 
MONTEGOMERY, IL 60538
Deanna Valdespino

630 299-3374

Trades: Millwright
Ownership: Eduardo Salgado - 100%

Vendor 34947
CARTMAN ELECTRICAL CONTRACTING

9645 MICHIGAN AVE
CHICAGO, IL 60628
Alvato Cartman Sr.

773 317-0129

Trades: Electrician
Ownership: Alvato Cartman Sr. 50%, Sharon
Cartman - 50%

Vendor 17322
GYMNASIUM MATTERS, LLC

1312 RIVARD DR.
BOURBONNAIS, IL 60914
Matt Hasemeyer

815 932?3323

Trades: Carpenter, Floor Covering, Flooring,
Laborer, Sign Hanger
Ownership: Matt Hasemeyer - 100%

Vendor 68338
A SIGN, INC.

1114 MADISON ST.
OAK PARK, IL 60302
Kim Rasmussen

708 848?7446

Trades: Painter Signs, Sign Hanger, Sign
Manufacturer

Ownership: Kim Rasmussen - 51%, Tim
Rasmussen - 49%

19-1211-P R3

104)

105)

106)

107)
Vendor 17893
JAMES OWEN SEIBERT J.O.S. SERVICES
INC.

2920 FRONTENAC ST. UNIT 211
NORTH CHICAGO, IL 60064
James Seibert

847 274-0734

Trades: Plumber
Ownership: James Seibert

Vendor 39827
JOHNSON CONTROLS FIRE PROTECTION
LP

91 N. MITCHELL COURT 108)
ADDISON, IL 60101

Chris Nelson

630 948-1100

Trades: Communications Electrician,
Electrician, Sprinkler Fitter

Ownership: Simplex Time Recorder Co. - 51%,
Grinnell LLC 49%

Vendor 97604
KAG DECORATION AND LANDSCAPING

1624 NORTH 76TH COURT 109)
ELMWOOD PARK, IL 60707

Greta Wellhoefer

312 685-6666

Trades: Carpenter, Ceiling Tile Installer,
Cement Mason, Ceramic Tile Finisher, Fence
Erector, Floor Covering, Flooring, Laborer,
Landscaping, Roofer, Painter, Renovation and
Repair Painting

Ownership: Greta Wellhoefer 100%

17

Vendor 34922
HOSANNA MAHALEY DBA LEGACY R.E.D.
GROUP, INC.

6029 1/2 S. HARPER AVENUE
CHICAGO, IL 60637

Hosanna Mahaley

312 971?9300

Trades: Carpenter, Communications
Electrician, Floor Covering, Flooring, Glazier,
HVAC, Laborer, Landscaping, Painter,
Plasterer, Plumber, Renovation and Repair
Painting, Tile Mason

Ownership: Hosanna Mahaley - 100%

Vendor 89675
LIVEWIRE ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS, INC

12900 S. Throop St.
Calumet Park, IL 60827
Shon Harris

708 535-6001

Trades: Carpenter, Cement Mason,
Communications Electrician, Electric Power
Lineman, Electrician, Laborer

Ownership: Shon Harris - 100%

Vendor 20064
MIDWEST INTERSTATE ELECTRICAL

1355 W. NORTH AVENUE
CHICAGO, IL 60622
Michael A. Suglich

773 342-2600

Trades: Electric Power Equipment Operator,
Electrician, Communications Electrician
Ownership: John R. Shannon - 100%



110)

111)

112)

113)
Vendor 34956
MILES DEVELOPMENT INC

8020 SOUTH ELIZABETH
CHICAGO, IL 60620
Tabatha Miles

773 783-5310

Trades: Brick Mason, Carpenter, Ceiling Tile
Installer, Cement Mason, Ceramic Tile Finisher,
Electrician, Floor Covering, Flooring, Laborer,
Millwright, Painter, Plumber, Roofer, Traf?c
Safety, Tuckpointer

Ownership: Tabatha Miles - 100%

Vendor 34948
DIVINE PLUMBING, INC.

10455 S. PROSPECT AVE
CHICAGO, IL 60643

Anna Hall

312 533-9932

Trades: Plumber
Ownership: Anna Hall - 100%

Vendor 49940
PMJ ENTERPRISES, INC.

4122 GRAND AVE
CHICAGO, IL 60651
Jose T. Espiritu

773 36045532

Trades: Brick Mason, Carpenter, Ceiling Tile
Installer, Cement Mason, Ceramic Tile Finisher,
Floor Covering, Flooring, Glazier, Laborer,
Landscaper, Ornamental Iron Worker, Painter,
Renovation and Repair Painting, Sign Hanger,
Steel Erector

Ownership: Jose T. Espiritu - 100%

18

Vendor 34923
VIMAK CONSTRUCTION MASONRY, INC.

15221 HAMLIN STREET
PLAINFIELD, 60544
Victor 

815 436-0195

Trades: Brick Mason, Cement Masonry,
Ceramic Tile Finisher, Laborer, Stone Masonry,
Tuckpointer

Ownership: Victor - 100%

 December 11, 2019

AUTHORIZE THE PRE-QUALIFICATION STATUS OF AND NEW AGREEMENTS WITH VARIOUS
VENDORS TO PROVIDE JOB ORDER CONTRACTING (JOC) SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the pre-qualifioation status of and new master agreements with various vendors to provide Job
Order Contracting (JOC) Services at an estimated annual cost set forth in the Compensation Section Of
this report and authorize a written master agreement with each vendor. Vendors were selected on a
competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2. Written master agreements for vendors are currently being
negotiated. No services shall be provided by and no payment shall be made to any vendor prior to the
execution of their written master agreement. The pre-quali?cation status approved herein for each vendor
shall automatically rescind in the event such vendor fails to execute the Board's master agreement within
120 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this master agreement is stated below.

Speci?cation Number: 19-350032

Contract Administrator: Schieve, Mr. Michael 773-553-2280

USER INFORMATION 

Project
Manager: 11860 - Facility Operations Maintenance

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, lL 60602

Dye, Ms. Venguanette
773?553?2960

TERM:

The term of this pre?quali?cation period and each master agreement is three (3) years, effective January
1, 2020 and ending December 31, 2022. The Board shall have the right to renew the pre-qualitication
period and each master agreement for two additional one (1) year periods.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Contractors shall provide all management, work, material, supplies, parts (to include system 7
components), transportation, ptant, supervision, labor, and equipment, as set forth in the Project Work
Orders. The Contractors may be used to perform any work on Board Facilities but are intended primarily
for renovation projects of the Board's Capital improvement Program.

COMPENSATION:

Contractors shall be paid as follows: Estimated annual amounts for the sum of payments to all
pre~qualified vendors, based on projects awarded, for the three (3) year pre-qualification term are set forth
below: 

FY20 $12,500,000
FY21 $25,000,000
FY22 $25,000,000
FY23 $12,500,000

19-1211-PR4

The costs associated herewith shall be reported to the Board on a quarterly basis pursuant to Board Rule
7-10.

USE OF POOL:

The Department of Capital Planning Construction willaward projects in the form of individual project
work orders issued pursuant to the master agreement. As individual projects are identified, the
Department of Capital Planning Construction will invite one or more pre?quall?ed contractors to attend a
joint scope meeting for the purpose of reviewing the scope of work and obtaining price proposals. The
value of each price proposal will be based on the tasks selected from the Construction Unit Price Catalog
(CUPC) required to complete the ?nal scope of work multiplied by the appropriate quantity. The Board in
its discretion may consider any relevant factors that are in the best interests of the Board in awarding
projects, including without limitation the following: capacity of pre~qualified JOC Contractors; 
complexity of the project; (0) urgency of the project; experience of pre?qualified JOC Contractors; and
price proposals.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written master
agreement. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the master agreements. Authorize Chief
Operating Officer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate the master
agreement.

ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women?Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Construction contract Program), the Business Diversity goals for this pool are 30% MBE and 7%
WBE. This vendor pool is comprised of 20 vendors with 6 MBEs and 2 WBEs. The User Group has
committed to achieve the Business Diversity goals though utilization of the certified diverse suppliers and
certified diverse subcontractors.

LSC REVIEW: -
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:
Fund: Various Capital Funds: Unit Number 12150
Department of Facilities: Unit 11880

FY20 $12,500,000
FY21 $25,000,000
FY22 $25,000,000 
FY23 $12,500,000

Not to exceed $75,000,000 for the three (3) year term. Future year funding is contingent upon budget
appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

19-1211-PR4

indebtedness The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

Approved for Consideration: Approved:
JONATHAN MAPLES K. JACKSON
Chief Procurement Officer Chief Executive Officer

Approved as to Legal Form1$

w7?dk?y

JOSEPH T. MORIARTY
General Counsel



2)

Vendor 23048

AGAE Contractors, inc.
4549 NORTH MILWAUKEE AVE.

CHICAGO, IL 60630

Frank Kutsohke

773 777-2240

Ownership: Julie Peirce - 100%

5)
Vendor 11380

B.E.T.O.N. CONSTRUCTION COMPANY
1415 37TH ST

CHICAGO, IL 60609

Violette Gutowska

773 823-1145
Ownership: Violette Gutowska - 100%

Vendor 31784 6)

BLINDERMAN CONSTRUCTION CO., INC.
224 DESPLAINES ST

CHICAGO, IL 60661

Steve Blinderman

312 982-2602

Ownership: Steve Blinderman - 50% David
Blinderman - 50%

Vendor 40927
000 HOLDINGS, DBA CHICAGO

COMMERCIAL CONSTRUCTION
9101 BALTIMORE AVENUE

CHICAGO, IL 60617

JR Kibbon

773 721?2500
Ownership: Jennifer Cullen - 100%

Vendor 17255

CPMH CONSTRUCTION, INC.
3129 S. SHIELDS

CHICAGO, IL 60616

Condrad Perez

312 929-2345

Ownership: Conrad Perez - 51% Michael Hope
- 49%

Vendor 18216

CREA CONSTRUCTION INC
433 W. Harrison .

CHICAGO, IL 60680?3161

Rea Johnson

312 371 -3827

Ownership: Rea Johnson - 100%

19-1211-PR4

9)

10)
Vendor 76326

F.H. PASCHEN, S.N. NIELSEN 

ASSOCIATES, LLC
5515 N. EAST RIVER RD.

CHICAGO, IL 60656

Leo Wright

773 444-3474

Ownership: FHP TR Trust - 66% James V. Blair
19% James J. 5% Scapelli 11)
Family Trust - 4% Charles W. Freiheit, Jr. - 4%
Roland Schneider 2%

Vendor 20152

THE GEORGE SOLLITT CONSTRUCTION

COMPANY
790 CENTRAL AVE

WOOD DALE, IL 60191

James Zielinski

630 860-7333

Ownership: Employee Stock 100%

12)
Vendor 40926

GRIGGS MITCHELL ALMA OF IL, DBA GMA

CONSTRUCTION GROUP
3520 S. MORGAN ST STE 222-4

CHICAGO, IL 60609

Patrick Fitzgerald

312 690-4205

Ownership: Cornelious Griggs - 100%

Vendor 23996

K.R. MILLER CONTRACTORS, INC.
1624 COLONIAL PARKWAY

INVERNESS, IL 60067

Keith Miller

312 432-1070
Ownership: Keith Miller - 100%

Vendor 99843

MCDONAGH DEMOLITION INC
7243 W. TOUHY AVE

CHICAGO, IL 60631

Paul Dadian

773 276?7707

Ownership: Geraldine McDonagh - 61%
Coleman McDonagh - 3% Coleman
McDonagh(minor) - 6% Caoimhe McDonagh -
6% Clara McDonagh - 6% Clan McDonagh -
6% Ava McDonagh - 6% Roisin McDonagh -
6%

Vendor 31792

O.C.A. CONSTRUCTION, INC.
8434 CORCORAN RD

WILLOW SPRINGS, IL 60480

Kelly Heneghan

708 839-5605

Ownership: Kelly Heneghan 51% John
O'Connor 49%

19-1211-PR4

13)

14)

15)

16)
Vendor 49940

PMJ ENTERPRISES, INC.
4122 GRAND AVE

CHICAGO, IL 60651

Jose Espiritu

773 360-5532

Ownership: Jose Espiritu 100%

17)
Vendor 24765

SPEEDY GONZALEZ LANDSCAPING, INC.
10624 TORRENCE AVE.

CHICAGO, IL 60617-0000

Jose Gonzalez

773 734?7780

Ownership: Jose Gonzalez - 100%

18)
Vendor 15399

TYLER LANE CONSTRUCTION INC
8700 W. BRYN MAWR, STE 620N

CHICAGO, IL 60631

Vince 

773 588?4500

Ownership: Lawrence Vacala 100%

Vendor 41437

UJAMAA CONSTRUCTION, INC.
7744 S. STONY ISLAND AVE.

CHICAGO, IL 60649

Stephen Bonezek

773 602?1100

Ownership: Jimmy Akintondo - 100%

Vendor 40357

KRIVI ALL JOINT VENTURE LLC
312 MAT ST UNIT 100

CHICAGO, IL 60607

Keith Miller

312 432-1070

Ownership: Keith Miller 55% Luis Puig - 45%

Vendor 40359

PASCHEN ASHLAUR JOINT VENDTURE II
5515 N. EAST RIVER RD

CHICAGO, IL 60656

Leo Wright 

773 444-3474

Ownership: F.H. Paschen Owners 80% Zollie
Carradine 20%

19-1211-PR4

19)

20)

Vendor 40360

SOLLITT OAKELY JOINT VENTURE
790 N. CENTRAL AVENUE

WOOD DALE, IL 60191

James Zielinski

630 860?7333

Ownership: George Sollitt Ownership 70%
Oakley Construction Ownship 30%

Vendor 69819

LEOPARDO COMPANIES INC.
5200 PRAIRIE STONE PARKWAY

HOFFMAN ESTATES, IL 60192

Pete OIdendorf

847 783?3000

Ownership: Jim Leopardo 100%

19-1211-PR5 December 11, 2019

REPORT ON THE AWARD OF CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS AND CHANGES TO CONSTRUCTION
CONTRACTS FOR THE BOARD OF CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

This report details the award of Capital Improvement Program construction contracts in the total amount of
$3,586,019.05 to the respective lowest responsible bidders for various construction projects, as listed in
Appendix A of this report. These construction contracts shall be for projects approved as part of the Boards
Capital improvement Program. Work involves all labor, material and equipment required to construct new
schools, additions, and annexes, or to renovate existing facilities, all as called for in the plans and
specifications for the respective projects. Proposals, schedules of bids, and other supporting documents
are on file in the Department of Operations. These contracts have been awarded in accordance with section
7-2 of the Rules of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago.

This report also details changes to existing Capital Improvement Program construction contracts, in the
amount of $95,389.63 as listed in the attached December Change Order Log. These construction contract
changes have been processed and are being submitted to the Board for approval in accordance with
section 7-13 of the Rules of the Board of Education of the City of Chicago, since they require an increased
commitment necessitated by an unforeseen combination of circumstances or conditions calling for
immediate action to protect Board property to prevent interference with school sessions.

LSC REVIEW: Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: The General Contracting Services Agreements entered into by each of the pre?
qualified general contractors and other miscellaneous construction contracts awarded outside the pre?
qualified general contractor program for new construction awards and changes to existing construction
contracts shall be subject to the Board?s Business Diversity Program for Construction Projects and any
revisions or amendments to that policy that may be adopted during the term of any such contract.

FINANCIAL: Expenditures involved in the Capital improvement Program are charged to
the Department of Operations, Capital improvement Program.

Budget classification: Fund 412, 425, 427', 431, 435, 436, 437, 439, 485,. 486, 487 488
will be used for all Change Orders (December Change Order Log); Funding source for new
contracts is so indicated on Appendix A

Funding Source: Capital Funding





GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel necessary
to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 which restricts the employment of or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of office.

Indebtedness The Board?s Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 as amended from
time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability ?'The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current fiscal
year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent fiscal year budget(s).

Approved for Consideration: Approved:



Arnaldo Rivera - .Ja kson, 
Chief Operating O?7r hief? xecu ive Officer

p?'ov- r; 
?.1111



GeneraIC-n eI

 

   
 



Appendix A
December
201 9

 

SCHOOL CONTRACTOR CONTRACT CONTRACT CONTRACT AWARD AWARD DATE ANTICIPATED FISCAL
METHOD COMPLETION YEAR 
DATE

AFFIRMITWE ACTION PROJECT SCOPE AND NOTES REASONS FOR PROJECT

 

  

 

Merrill IV 3547607 IOC
Reillg Tyler Lane 3614461 

68,268.44 9/5/2019 10/31/2019 2019 0% 0% 0% stabilization and structural re airs

1,034,911.60 6/5/2019 11/30/2019 2019 0% 97% 0% 2%

 

 

 

The scope of work consists of critiml mason stabilization and structural re airs
Graham M21 3627476 VT

 

623,160.26 8/16/2019 2/28/2020 2020 0% 93% 0% 7%

 

 

The scope ofwork consists of mechanical ties to the school

The scope ofwork consists of a new monumental ma 51
The scope of work consists of mechanical upgrades to the school
The sea of Work consists of emer en la ound repairs
The scope of work consists of roof and mason re airs and associated interior renovations
The scope of work consists of critical mason stabilization and structural repairs

Blair 'l?vler Lane 3635038 GC
Northside Learning ?ler Lane 3627417 
Stagg Old Veterans 3641882 
KR. Miller 364-1831 
'l?vler Lane 3651136 

 

 

179,000.00 9/25/2019 5/31/2020 2020 0% 25% 0% 8%
686,608.00 8/1/2019 12/31/2019 2019 13% 1% 0% 50%
17,527.11 9/16/2019 12/31/2019 2020 0% 57% 0% 43%
772,988.93 9/16/2019 12/31/2019 2020 1% 26% 0% 0%
187,823.15 9/16/2019 10/31/2019 2020 0% 87% 0% 0%

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3,586,019.05

 

Reasons:

1. Safety

2. Code Compliance

3. Fire Code Violations

4. Deteriorated Exterior Condlu?ons

5. Priority Mechaniwl Needs 
6. ADA Compliance

7. Support for Educational Portfolio Strategy

8. Support for other Dish-{ct Initiatives
9. External Funding Provided

19-1211-PR5

 

CPS November December 2019

Chicago Public Schools 10/17/19
These change order approval cycles range from
Cautal Im urovement Pro am 0910112019 to 0913012019 Pa-_e 1 of 7

CHANGE ORDER LOG

    

 

Original Number of Total Revised Total
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change Contract of Oracle Board Number
Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract P0 Number

George Cassell School

2018 Cassell MCR 2018-22651-MCR 
Old Veteran Construction, inc $4,673,065.88 26 $412,547.86 $5,085,613.74 8.83%

Change Date App Date Chanoe Order Descriptions Reason Code
3485389 3512369
09/19/19 09/24/19 Contractor to provide credit for unused labor and materials for environmental scope. Owner Directed 

 

Project Total: 

Dewitt Clinton School

2018 Clinton MCR 2018-22751-MCR
The George Sollitt Construction Co. $13,332,254.00 45 $773,120.00 $14,105,374.00 5.80%

I Change Date App Date Chan Order Descri tions

. Reason Code

 

- 3506609 3512370
09/07/19 09/16/19 Contractor to provide labor and materials to replace four locksets. Safety Issue $5,734.00

 

Project Total: $5,734.00

John Drake School

2017 Drake HCE 2017-23011-HCE
KR. Miller Contractors, $686,000.00 8 $25,261.00 $71 1,261.00 3.68%

Change Date Apg Date Chan Order Descri tions Reason Code

 

- 3492661
09/11/19 09/16/19 Contractor to provide labor and materials to expedite door delivery. Owner Directed $2,180.40

 

Project Total: $2,180.40

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears.



CPS November December 2019

Chicago Public Schools 10/17/19
. These change order approval cycles range from
Ca-ltal Im Pro; am 0910112019 to 0913012019 Pa;e 2 of 7

CHANGE ORDER LOG

 

Original Number of Total Revised Tomi
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change Contract of Oracle Board Number
Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract P0 Number

Wendell Green

2018 Green MEP 2018-24131-MEP 
All?Bry Construction Company $2,784,000.00 29 $2,645,960.35 4.96%

Change Date App Date Chan Order Descri tions

 

Reason Code
3564873
08121119 0911 61,19 Contractor to provide labor and materials to install retro light ?xture housing. Omission AOR $3,657.00

08121119 09116119 Contractor to provide labor and materials to provide wiring and raceway for two additional speakers in Omission $11,903.80
gym, provide a new call button for kitchen and provide wiring for two new speakers in library. 

- 08130119 09116119 Contractor to provide labor and materials to install an intercom handset in principal's of?ce and tie into School Request $2,851.40
existing PA system.

I

08112119 09116119 Contractor to provide labor and materials to replace existing strobe in 2"d ?oor toilet room and relocate Discovered Conditions $14,021.68
and replace existing heat detectors in select rooms.

08123119 09110119 Contractor to provide labor and materials to install a new unit-vent, louver and make window Discovered Conditions $40,210.72
adjustments to allow for proper drainage.

08116119 09125119 Contractor to provide credit for removal of demising type construction walls from scope of work. Owner Directed 

 

Project Total: $31,779.26

Oscar Mayer Elementary School

2018 Mayer MEP 2018-24401-MEP
Reliable Associates $3,532,800.00 15 $179,192.69 $3,711,992.69 5.07%

Change Date App Date Chan Order Descri tions .. Reason Code

 

3549152 1 3582240
08129119 09110119 Contractor to provide labor and materials to lower existing gymnasium scoreboard for full viewing Discovered Conditions $2,385.00
access.

 

Project Total: $2,385.00

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears.



 

 

November December 2019

These change order approval cycles range from
09/01/2019 to 09/30/2019

CHANGE ORDER LOG

Original Number of Total
Contract Change Change
Amount Orders Orders

Chicago Public Schools
Ca - ital Im - rovement Pro :ram

 

Revised Total
Contract of

School Vendor Project Number

Amount Contract

 

10/17/19'
Page 3 of7

 

Oracle Board Number
PO Number

 

William Ryder Math Science Specialty ES

2019 Ryder PKC 201 9-25191-PKC -
Buckeye Construction

Change Date Agg Date

$205,793.00 5 $49,419.68 $255,212.68 24.01%

Reason Code

Chan Order Descri lions

 

09/06/19 09/10/19 Contractor to provide labor and materials to install new wireless wall switch and controller with safety Omission 

covers and provide deduct for removal of fire damper scope of work.

08/14/19 09/10/19 Contractor to provide labor and materials to fur out plumbing chase wall for routing of new piping. Owner Directed

3624693
$1,627.10

$2,280.06

 

James Ward Elementary School 

2018 Ward ROF 2018-25751-ROF
Reliable Associates

Change Date App Date

$2,938,000.00 1 $38,339.74 $2,976,339.74 1.30%

Change Order Descriptions Reason Code

07/18/19 09/20/19 Contractor to provide labor and materials abate asbestos floor tile, repair damaged plaster ceiling and Discovered Conditions

walls and scrape, prime and paint areas affected in rooms 300, 301 and 304.

Project Total: $3,907.16

3545550
$38,339.74

 

Franklin Fine Arts Center

2017 Franklin ROF 2017-29081-ROF 
The George Sollitt Construction Co.

Change Date Agg Date

$7,924,000.00 24 $65,707.96 $7,989,707.96 0.83%

Reason Code

Chan 8 Order Descri lions

 

 

Contractor to provide labor and materials to repair and replace additional masonry and terra cotta at Discovered Conditions

select locations.

09/10/19 09/16/19

Project Total: $38,339.74

I

3300816
$36,579.48

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears.

Project Total: $36,579.48



 

 

November December 2019

These change order approval cycles range from
0910112019 to 0913012019

CHANGE ORDER LOG

Original Number of Total
Contract Change Change
Amount Orders Orders

CPS

Chicago Public Schools
Ca - ital Im . rovement Pro :ram

 

Revised Total
Contract of
Amount Contract

School Vendor Project Number

Roald Amundsen High School

2017 Amundsen UAF 2017-46031-UAF
Friedler Construction Co.

ADD Date

$2,278,800.00 5 $136,670.84 $2,415,470.84 6.00%

Reason Code

Chan 6 Order Descri tions

Chanqe Date

 

 

03111119 09125119 Contractor to provide labor and materials to repair and replace electrical, water and sewer lines Discovered Conditions

discovered near existing catch basin.

 

10/17/19~
Pa;e 4 of 7

 

Oracle Board Number
P0 Number

3504248
$17,135.04

 

William Howard Taft High School

2018 Taft UAF 2018-46311-UAF
Friedler Construction Co.

App Date

$2,547,800.00 5 $3,189,582.00 25.19%

Mode

$641,782.00

Chanqe Date Chan Order Descri tions-

 

09106119 09117119 Contractor to provide labor and materials to install conduit, wiring, conductors and electrical box for Omission 

new bleacher lights.

Project Total: $17.1 35.04

351 6337
$6,977.00

 

George Washington High School

2019 Washington HS SCI 2019-46331-SCI
Holdings DBA Chgo Comm Construct

Change Date App Date

$1 ,305,486.00 3 $1,293,897.22 -0.89%

Chan Order Descri tions Reason Code

 

Contractor to provide labor and materials to open existing CMU wall and lower sink drain lines to allow Discovered Conditions
for proper drainage for newly installed sinks.

09/0611 9 09/25/19

Contractor to provide labor and materials to move new casework 5? off existing wall to allow for Omission AOR

plumbing installation. Contractor to provide epoxy resin countertop to cover gap.

09/06/19 09/10/19

Project Total: 977.00

3596803
$2,791.28

$1,323.94

 

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears.

Project Total: $4,1 1 5.22



CPS

Chicago Public Schools

November December 2019

These change order approval cycles range from

Ca. ital Im movement Pro 1 am 0910112019 to 0913012019

 

School Vendor

    

CHANGE ORDER LOG

Original Number of Total Revised Total
Project Number Contract Change Change Contract of
Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract

10/17/19

Page 5 of7

Oracle Board Number
PO Number

 

Al Raby High School
2019 AI Raby 2019-46471-SCI 

F.H. Paschen, S.N. Nielsen Assoc

modem
08103119

0810311 9

08103119

0810311 9

09106119

09106119

08102119

09106119

09106119

App Date

09110119

09110119

09116119

09123119

09116119

09110119

09110119

09110119

09110119

Chan Order Descri tions

 

Contractor to provide labor and materials to remove, frame and paint existing cabinets in room 414
that were discovered to be different depths creating a void.

Contractor to provide labor and materials to build chase wall to conceal sink drain line in room 411.

Contractor to provide labor and materials to frame out closet in room 414 to accommodate new fume
hood depth.

Contractor to provide labor and materials to fur out and paint wall pocket discovered toallow for
installation of new marker board in the ?re extinguisher cabinet in room 411.

Contractor to provide labor and materials to extend existing exhaust fan ductwork to roof.

Contractor to provide labor and materials to construct a chase around exposed vent pipes along the
window wall of room 411.

Contractor to provide labor and materials to align new adjacent ACT ceiling to match ceiling pocket in
room 411 .

Contractor to provide credit for not completing repairs to ceiling and deck that were discovered to be in
good condition.

Contractor to provide credit for not painting room 414 that was determined to be in good condition.

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears.

$625,000.00 12 $28,089.35 $653,089.35 4.49%
Reason Code

Discovered Conditions

Discovered Conditions

Omission-AOR

Discovered Conditions

Code Compliance

Discovered Conditions

Omission - AOR

Allowance Credit

Discovered Conditions

3593792
$5,702.08

$2,711.16

$3,539.69
$5,740.24

$2,768.00
$2,142.81
$5350.37



-$689.00

 

Project Total: $26,549.35



CPS

Chicago Public Schools

November December 2019

These change order approval cycles range from

Ca nital Im movement Pro am 0910112019 to 0913012019

 

School Vendor

CHANGE ORDER LOG

  

Original Number of Total Revised Total

Project Number Contract Change Change Contract ?In of

Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract

John Marshall Metropolitan High School
2019 Marshall SCI 2019-47041-SCI 

F.H. Paschen, S.N. Nielsen Assoc

Change Date
09/06/19

08/02/19

08/02/19

App Date
09126119

09/16/19

09/23/19

Chan eOrderDescri tions

 

Contractorto provide credit for not painting the ceiling grid in room 348.
Contractor to provide labor and materials to modify existing door frame.

Contractor to provide labor and materials to patch wall at the existing wash station.

Southside Occupational Academy High School .

2018 Southside ICR 2018-49031-ICR
All-Bry Construction Company $585,000.00 10 $69,058.72 $654,058.72 11.80%

Change Date

09/04/19

08/28/19

08/30/19

08/27/1 9

09/04/19

App Date

09/10/19

09/16/19

09/16/19

09/16/19

09/23/19

Chan Order Descri tions

 

Contractor to provide labor and materials to install new kick plates at each of the four new doors, install
additional drywall enclosure to align with the length of the triple basin sink and adjust location of sink to
align with edge of vertical drywall enclosure and provide solid surface cap.

Provide labor and materials to install new chase wall for plumbing vent stack, extend vent stack to roof
and?provide vent curb and ?ashing, patch and paint wall to match existing. Contractor to re-route new
water pipe in ceiling to new chase wall and reconnect piping to existing wall hydrant.

Contractor to provide labor and materials to repair dishwasher internal connections and provide a new
cold water line. .-

.

Contractor to provide labor and materials to remove and replace buried conduits discovered during
trenching of slab in ?ve classrooms.

Contractor to provide labor and materials to construct 5 high knee wall to divide instructional work
space and operational school space for newly installed coffee roaster by the school.

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears.

$567,000.00 12 $25,954.23 $592,954.23 4.58%
Reason Code

Owner Directed

Discovered Conditions

Omission - AOR

10/17/19'

Pa;e 6 of7

 

Oracle Board Number
P0 Number

3593497
-$629.00

$11,531.75

$4,790.22

 

Reason Code

Omission AOR

Discovered Conditions

Discovered Conditions

Discovered Conditions

School Request

Project Total: $1 5,692.97

3568919
$2,192.98

$2,335.60

$1,029.42
$3,243.60

$5,223.22

 

Project Total: $15,029.82-

19-1211-PR5

CPS November December 2019

Chicago Public Schools
These change order approval cycles range from
Ca 9 Ital Im movement Pro am 0910112019 to 0913012019

CHANGE ORDER LOG

Original Number of Total Revised Total
School Vendor Project Number Contract Change Change Contract of
Amount Orders Orders Amount Contract

 

 

Charles Allen Prosser Career Academy High School

2019 Prosser 
F.H. Paschen, S.N. Nielsen &Assoc $1,204,000.00 5 $76,483.52 $1,280,483.52 6.35%

Change Date App Date Chan Order Descri tions Reason Code

 

09/11/19 09/24/19 Contractor to provide labor and materials to relocate electrical raceway and existing gas piping for new Discovered Conditions
doorway. Contractor to provide drywall and paint to match existing after demolition of existing
whiteboard uncovered exposed bricks. Contractor to paint existing exposed ducts to match existing.

10/17/19.

Pa;e 7 of7

 

Oracle Board Number
PO Number

3589026
$13,961.72

 

 

Neal Simeon Career Academy High School

2019 Simeon SCI 2019-53061-SCI 
F.H. Paschen, S.N. Nielsen Assoc $811,500.00 3 $15,790.04" $827,290.04 1.95%

Change Date App Date Chan Order Descri tions Reason Code

 

08106119 09116119 Contractor to provide labor and materials to freeze existing plumbing valves and install new local Owner Directed
shut-off valves after existing shut-off valves could not be found.

Project Total: $13,961.72

3595158
$2,261.99

 

Total Change Orders for this Period $95,389.63

The following change orders have been approved and are being reported to the Board in arrears.

Project Total: $2,261.99

19-1211-P R5

19-1211-PR6 December 11, 2019

AUTHORIZE THE FIRST RENEWAL AND AMENDMENT OF AGREEMENT WITH RL CANNING, INC.
FOR SERVICE DESK AND TECH SUPPORT SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the first renewal and amendment of agreement with RL Canning, Inc. to provide service desk
and tech support services to central of?ce, other administrative offices, and schools at an estimated
annual cost set forth in the Compensation Section of this report. Vendor was selected on a competitive
basis pursuant to former Board Rule 7-2. A written agreement exercising this option is currently being
negotiated. No payment shall be made to RL Canning, Inc. during the option period prior to execution of
the written option document. The authority granted herein shall automatically rescind in the event a
written option document is not executed within 90 days of the date of this Board Report. Information
pertinent to this option is stated below.

Speci?cation Number: 14-350006

Contract Administrator: Forero, Mr. Bryan 773?553-2280
VENDOR:

1) Vendor 35082
RL CANNING, INC.

8700 W. BRYN MAWR AVE STE 120N
CHICAGO, IL 60631

Rachel Canning

773 693-1900

USER INFORMATION 

Project 12510 - Information Technology Services
Manager: 42 West Madison Street

Chicago, IL 60602

Price, Ms. Debra

773-553-1300

ORIGINAL AGREEMENT:

The original agreement authorized by Board Report in the amount of $16,500,000 is for a
term commencing August 1 2015 and ending June 30, 2020, with the Board having two (2) options to
renew for three (3) year terms. The original agreement was awarded on a competitive basis pursuant to
former Board Rule 7-2.

OPTION PERIOD:

The amendment to pricing terms to bene?t CPS shall be effective upon execution of the agreement. The
term of this agreement is being renewed for three (3) years commencing July 1. 2020 and ending June
30, 2023.

OPTION PERIODS REMAINING:
There is one (1) option period forthree (3) years remaining.

19-1211-P R6

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

Vendor will continue to provide service desk and tech support services to central office, other
administrative offices, and schools. Service desk includes: incident management, problem management,
change management, service requests, delivery assurance, service request management, etc. Tech
support services includes: coverage during normal and extended business hours at the service locations
listed in the agreement, and help desk services.

OUTCOMES: 

Vendor's services will result in service desk and tech support services to central office, other
administrative offices, and schools. Service desk includes: incident management, problem management,
change management, service requests, delivery assurance, service request management, etc. Tech
support services includes: coverage during normal and extended business hours at the service locations
listed in the SOW, and help desk services.

COMPENSATION:
Vendor shall be paid during this option period as follows: hourly (school level) and fixed (central of?ce)
Estimated annual costs for this option period'are set forth below:

$3,300,000, FY21
$3,300,000, FY22
$3,300,000, FY23

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written option
agreement. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the option agreement. Authorize the Chief
Information Of?cer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this option
agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services contracts Program), this agreement is in full compliance with the Business
Diversity goals the Prime vendor is 100% MBE.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Various Funds, Various Units

$3,300,000, FY21

$3,300,000, FY22

$3,300,000, FY23

Not to exceed $9,900,000 for the three (3) year term.

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approvai.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
5/34?1 3.1, the inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 ILCS which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former

2

19-1211-PR6

Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Poiicy adopted June 26, 1996 (96-0626-PO3), as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
fiscal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

Approved for Consideration: Approved:
,1 
C. 
JONATHAN MAPLES JANICE K. JACKSON
Chief Procurement Officer Chief Executive Officer

Approved as to Legal Formzo?

?aw/My

JOSEPH T. MORIARTY
General Counsel

 December 11, 2019

AUTHORIZE A NEW AGREEMENT WITH GUIDEPOST SOLUTIONS LLC FOR SAFE SCHOOLS
AUDIT SERVICES 

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize a new agreement with Guidepost Solutions LLC to provide safe schools audit services to all
district run schools at an estimated annual cost set forth in the Compensation Section of this report.
Vendor was selected on a competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-3. A written agreement for
Vendor's services is currently being negotiated. No services shall be provided by Vendor and no
payment shall be made to Vendor prior to the execution of their written agreement. The authority granted
herein shall automatically rescind in the event a written agreement is not executed within 90 days of the
date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this agreement is stated below.

Speci?cation Number: 19?350031
Contract Administrator Washington, Ms. I 773-553-2273
VENDOR:

1) Vendor 40356
GUIDEPOST SOLUTIONS LLC
53 JACKSON BLVD SUITE 1001

CHICAGO, IL 60604

Edward Batcheior
312 291 -9788

Ownership: SolutionPoint international -
100%

USER INFORMATION 

Project
Manager: 10610 - School Safety and Security Of?ce

42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Copeland, Ms. Toni
773-553-3043

TERM:

The term of this agreement shall commence on January 1, 2020 and shall and December 31, 2021. This
agreement shall have two (2) options to renew for periods of one (1) year each.

EARLY TERMINATION RIGHT: 
The Board shall have the right to terminate this agreement with 30 days written notice.

19-1211-PR7

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

It is important that all 513 CPS District Run Schools (421 Elementary Schools and 92 High Schools) are
assessed and audited with the aim of identifying hazards, threats, and vulnerabilities that might pose a
danger to life or property and/or may interfere with a safe, secure and healthy environment that is
conducive to teaching and learning.

DELIVERABLES:
Vendor will provide the following;

1. Develop audit checklist. Survey Baseline Program Development and Operational Review.

2. Complete general school audits based on CPS approved checklist/review if emergency documentation
and emergency plans.

3. Complete School Intruder Assessments.

4. Complete written and electronic audit reports. Disseminate reports and audit ?ndings to CPS board
of?cers, Chief Of?cer of School Safety and Security and Project Manager.

OUTCOMES:

Vendor's services will result in completion of a comprehensive safety audit of all 513 CPS schools. CPS
parties of interest should be provided with detailed, school speci?c, written audit ?ndings and reports.
The Vendor shall meet with CPS to review ?ndings, answer questions surrounding audits and
assessments, clarify ?ndings, review scoring and determine next steps for CPS schools.

Every audit should result in clear results and ?ndings that will allow CPS to implement the necessary 
changes to ensure the safety of all CPS schools, enhance current safety procedures and implement new
world-class best practices where necessary.

COMPENSATION:

Vendor shall be paid as follows:

Estimated annual costs for the two (2) year term are set forth below:
$921,840, FY20

$230,460, FY21

REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES:
None.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written agreement.
Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the agreement. Authorize the Chief of Safety and
Security to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate this agreement.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women-Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services contracts Program), the goals for this contractare 30% MBE and 7% WBE.
The Prime vendor has committed to the participation goals of 23% MBE and 15% WBE. The vendor has
scheduled the following ?rms:

Total MBE: 23%

ACE Investigative Services
7545 S. Western Ave.
Chicago, IL 60620
Ownership: John Grif?n Jr.

19-1211-PR7

Total WBE: 15%

Ross Barney Architects, P.C.
10 W. Hubbard St. 4th ?oor
Chicago, IL 60654

Ownership: Carol Ross Barney

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:

Various Funds, Safety and Security, Unit 10610

$921,840, FY20 -

$230,460, FY21

Not to exceed $1,152,300 for the two (2) year term.

Future year funding is contingent upon budget appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General - Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 ILCS
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Con?icts - The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the 
provisions of 105 5134?21 .3 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former

Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

Indebtedness - The Board's Indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability - The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current
?scal year is deemed a contingent liability, subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

Approved for Consideration: Approved:

?pm 


JONATHAN MAPLES JANICE K. JACKSON

Chief Procurement Officer Chief Executive Of?cer

Approved as to Legal Formm?

?(3?in

JOSEPH T. 
General Counsel

19-1211-PR8 December 11, 2019

AMEND BOARD REPORT 17-O726-PR6
AUTHORIZE THE PRE-QUALIFICATION STATUS OF AND NEW AGREEMENTS WITH VARIOUS
VENDORS TO PROVIDE TEMPORARY STAFFING SERVICES

THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REPORTS THE FOLLOWING DECISION:

Authorize the pre-qualification status of and new agreements with Various Vendors to provide Temporary
Staffing Services at an estimated annual aggregate cost set forth in the Compensation Section of this
report and authorize a written master agreement with each Vendor. Vendors were selected on a
competitive basis pursuant to Board Rule 7-2. Written master agreements for Vendors are currently being
negotiated. No services shall be provided by and no payment shall be made to any Vendor prior to the
execution of their written master agreement. The pre-quali?cation status approved herein for each Vendor
shall automatically rescind in the event such Vendor fails to execute the Board's master agreement within
120 days of the date of this Board Report. Information pertinent to this master agreement is stated below.

This December 2019 amendment is necessary to add seven (7) new vendors to the list of pre-gualified

vendors ursuant to the results of a su lemental Re uest for ualification RF issued the Board.
Written master agreements with the new vendors are currently being negotiated. The pre-gualification
status approved herein for each new vendor shall automatically rescind in the event such vendors fail to

execute the Board's master agreement within 120 days of the date of this amended Board Report.
Information pertinent to the master aqreements is stated below.

Speci?cation Number 17-350022, 19-350029

Contract Administrator Cantero. Mrs. Nanzi 773-553?2280

USER INFORMATION 

Project 11010 - Talent Of?ce

Manager: 42 West Madison Street
Chicago, IL 60602
Jordan, Ms. Christina
773?553-1044

TERM:

The term of this preuquali?cation period and each master agreement is four (4) years, effective August 1,
2017 arid ending July 31, 2021 .The term of each master agreement awarded pursuant to the
supplemental RFQ shall commence upon date of execution and end July 31, 2021. The Board shall have

the right to renew the pre?quali?cation period and each master agreement for an additional one (1) year
penod.

SCOPE OF SERVICES:

The pre-quali?ed pool of vendors will provide temporary staffing services to all Board units and schools.
The proposed agreements will ensure that the Board has qualified individuals to ?ll short-term and
medium-term staf?ng needs in support of critical district or departmental initiatives. The vendor pool shall
have extensive databases of quali?ed candidates to quickly ?ll temporary staffing needs enabling
departments and schools to continue operations.

COMPENSATION:
Vendors shall be paid as follows: Estimated annual amounts for the sum of payments to all pre-quali?ed
vendors for the four (4) year term are set forth below:

We, 1 641 342, FY18

19-1211-PR8

$+5667666 $1,142,174, FY19

500, 000, FY20

500, 000, FY21

64257666 $216,485, FY22

The costs associated herewith shall be reported to the Board on a quarterly basis pursuant to former
Board Ruie 7-8.

USE OF POOL:
All units are authorized to receive temporary staf?ng services from the pre- quaiit ed pool with prior
authorization from the Talent Department All temporary staf?ng positions will require a mini-bid process

in which the unit iS required to obtain quotes from the vendors 
setectiona approved to service the role category' In the pre-gualified pool prior to making a selection.

AUTHORIZATION:

Authorize the General Counsel to include other relevant terms and conditions in the written master
agreements. Authorize the President and Secretary to execute the master agreements. Authorize the
Chief Talent Officer to execute all ancillary documents required to administer or effectuate the master
agreements.

AF FIRMATIVE ACTION:

Pursuant to the Remedial Program for Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprise Participation in
Goods and Services contracts Program), the goals for this contract include 30% MBE
and 7% WBE. Aggregated compliance with the vendors in the pool will be reported on a quarterly basis.

LSC REVIEW:
Local School Council approval is not applicable to this report.

FINANCIAL:
Various Funds and Units:

$?1?3-7?5-666766 $1,641,342, FY18
31W $1,142,174, FY19
$1,500,000, FY20

500,000, FY21
FY22

Not to exceed $6,000,000 for the four (4) year term. Future year funding is contingent upon budget
appropriation and approval.

Not Applicable

GENERAL CONDITIONS:

Inspector General Each party to the agreement shall acknowledge that, in accordance with 105 
the Inspector General of the Chicago Board of Education has the authority to conduct certain
investigations and that the Inspector General shall have access to all information and personnel
necessary to conduct those investigations.

Conflicts The agreement shall not be legally binding on the Board if entered into in violation of the
provisions of 105 which restricts the employment of, or the letting of contracts to, former
Board members during the one year period following expiration or other termination of their terms of
of?ce.

indebtedness - The Beard's indebtedness Policy adopted June 26, 1996 as amended
from time to time, shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

19-1211-PR8

Ethics - The Board's Ethics Code adopted May 25, 2011 (11-0525-P02), as amended from time to time,
shall be incorporated into and made a part of the agreement.

Contingent Liability The agreement shall contain the clause that any expenditure beyond the current

?scal year is deemed a contingent liability. subject to appropriation in the subsequent ?scal year
budget(s).

Approved for Consideration: Approved:


f5? Wm tape/s
JONATHAN MAPLES K. JACKSON
Chief Procurement Officer Chief Executive Officer

Approved as to Legal Formxg

arm/My

JOSEPH T. MORIARTY
General Counsei



3)

4)

Vendor 18649
22ND CENTURY TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

220 Davidson Ave STE 118
SOMERSET, NJ 08873-4003
Sandeep Singh

888 998?7284

Ownership: Satvinder Singh 75%, Anupama
Sharma 25%
6)

Vendor 61271
PROFESSIONAL FINANCIAL
SEARCH, LLC

125 S. WACKER DRIVE, 27TH FLR.
CHICAGO, IL 60606

Carrie Bader

312 424-0300

Ownership: Odyssey Investment Partners 
100% 7)

Vendor 96734
MANPOWERGROUP US INC.

100 MANPOWER PLACE
MILWAUKEE, WI 53212
Michael DeLuca

414 961-1000

Ownership: ManpowerGroup - 100%

Vendor 67404
MIND YOUR MANNERS DBA THE WILLIAM
EVERETT GROUP

35 EAST WACKER DRIVE, STE 914
CHICAGO, IL 60601

Ellen Rozelle Turner 9)
312 564-5680

Ownership: Ellen Rozelle Turner - 100%

Vendor 22804
SENRYO INC. DBA SENRYO
TECHNOLOGIES

387 SHUMAN BOULEVARD
IL 60563
Jodi McCuIIoch

630 355-7429

Ownership: Dinkar Karumuri - 100%

Vendor #90597
VIVA USA INC

3601 ALGONQUIN., STE 425
ROLLING MEADOWS, iL 60008
Ilango Radhakrishnan

847 368-0860

Ownership: Vasanthi Ilangovan - 70%, Ilango
Radhakrishnan - 30%

Vendor 45053

INFOJINI INC.

10015 OLD COLUMBIA RD SUITE 215
COLUMBIA. MD 21046

Sandeep Hariani

443 257-0086

Ownershi Sandee Har?ani - 100?

 

Vendor 29477

LASALLE STAFFING INC DBA LASALLE
NETWORK

200 NORTH LASALLE STREET STE 2500
CHICAGO IL 60601

Claire Challenger

312 419-1700

Ownershi Tom Gimbel 100?

 

 

 

Vendor 23425

ROBERT HALF INTERNATIONAL INC.
205 MICHIGAN AVE. 3301
CHICAGO IL 60601

Michelle Reisdorf

312 819-0700

Ownership: Publicly Traded Company

 

 



10)

11)

12)

13)

Vendor 40353

TAD PGS INC.

1001 3RD AVENUE WEST SUITE 460
BRADENTON FL

Pamela Smith

941 746-4434

Ownershig: Adecco, Inc. 100%

 

 

 

Vendor 40354

HOWROYD-WRIGHT EMPLOYMENT
AGENCY INC.

327 W. BROADWAY
GLENDALE CA 91204
Rick Hagmann

866 493-84343

Ownership: Janice Brvant Howrovd - 48%:
Katha Howro 3? and Bre Howro 
49%

 

 

Vendor 40355

ENTERPRISE SOLUTIONS INC.
500 DIEHL ROAD SUITE 130
NAPERVILLE IL

Joshua Rosenthal

832 881-7903

Ownershi Ghai Famil Trust - 50? Thakur
Famil Trust - 25? Nikhii Thakur- 12.5? and
Sameer Thakur - 12.5%

 

 



INSIGHT GLOBAL LLC

4170 ASHFORD DUNWOODY RD.. STE 250
ATLANTA. GA 30319

Cristina Donnelly


Ownership: IG Staf?ng Holdings, LLC - 100%

 

19-1211-PR9

December 11, 2019

CHIEF PROCUREMENT OFFICER REPORT FOR OCTOBER 2019 ON THE DELEGATED AUTHORITY
EXERCISED UNDER BOARD RULE 7-13

Pursuant to 105 5/34-19, the Board of Education of the City of Chicago in Board Rule 7-13,
delegated certain purchasing and contracting authority to the Chief Executive Of?cer, Chief Operating
Of?cer, Chief Education Of?cer, Chief Financial Of?cer, Chief Procurement Of?cer, General Counsel,
Communications Of?cer and Chief Administrative Of?cer.

In accordance with that statute and under Board Rule the Board requires that the Chief
Procurement Of?cer submit a report of the authority exercised pursuant to that delegation (?delegated
authority?). The report is to be made to the Board by the last day of each month and must detail the
prior month?s delegated authority.

On December 2, 2019 the CPO submitted to the Board the attached report of delegated authority for the
period of October 1, 2019 to October 31, 2019, which is hereby submitted to the Board for its
acceptance.

Respecti?lly submitted,

 

Chief Procurement Of?cer

Approved:

 

 

 

 

Authority



CFO

CFO
CFO
CFO
CFO
CFO
CFO
CFO
CFO
CFO
CFO
CFO
CFO
CFO
CFO

CFO
CFO
CFO
CFO
CFO

CFO

CFO

CFO
CFO

UnitiDept
Number

10813
NIA
46551

46611
46611
24751
23581
49131
22951
23061
22671
25341
26521
23851
46481
26141
23451

23581
22211
46261
22951
22761

22441

46361

22751
22751

UnitlDept Name

Social Science Civic Engagement
NIA
Back of the Yards IB HS

Sarah E. Goode STEM Academy
Sarah E. Goode STEM Academy

Isabelle O'Keeffe Elementary School

John Harvard Elementary School of Excellence

Collins Academy High School

Dewey Elementary Academy of Fine Arts

George Curtis Elementary School

Thomas Chalmers Specialty Elementary School

William Sherman Elementary School

Amos Alonzo Stagg Elementary School

Julia Ward Howe Elementary School of

Excellence

Chicago Academy High School
John Foster Dulles Elementary School

Walter Gresham Elementary School

John Harvard Elementary School of Excellence

Jacob Beidler Elementary School

Wendell Phillips Academy High School

Dewey Elementary Academy of Fine Arts

Henry Clissold Elementary School

Irene C. Hernandez Middle School for the

Advancement of Science
Kenwood Academy High School

DeWitt Clinton Elementary School
DeWitt Clinton-Elementary School

Board Rule 7-13(i) Report - October 2019 Contracts

Vendor Number

1 8204
NIA
34005

NIA

12124

39861

39861

39861

39861

39861

39861

39861

39861

39861

39861

39861

39861

39861
NIA
39861
NIA
NIA

28845



NIA
NIA

Vendor Name

The Gilder Lehrman Institute of
American History

T.L.P. EducationlExiension

lnscite Illinois DBA FIRST Illinois
Robotics

Network For College Success (NCS)
Grant

Mikva Challenge Grant Foundation
Inc.

Academy For Urban School
Leadership

Academy For Urban School
Leadership

Academy For Urban School
Leadership

Academy For Urban School
Leadership

Academy For Urban School
Leadership

Academy For Urban School
Leadership

Academy For Urban School
Leadership

Academy For Urban School
Leadership

Academy For Urban School
Leadership

Academy For Urban School
Leadership

Academy For Urban School
Leadership

Academy For Urban School
Leadership

Academy For Urban School
Leadership

Francis Beidler Foundation

Academy For Urban School
Leadership

Action for Healthy Kids

Ruth Oliver Secord Perpetual
Charitable Trust

Ingenuity Incorporated Chicago
Creative Schools Fund C10 Ingenuity
Inc Chicago - Dance Program

ASIS Foundation

ASIS International

Type of Contract

No Fee
No Fee
Grants Under $50k

Grants Under $50k
Grants Under $50k
Grants Under $50k
Grants Under $50k
Grants Under $50k
Grants Under $50k
Grants Under $50k
Grants Under $50k
Grants Under $50k
Grants Under $50k
Grants Under $50k
Grants Under $50k
Grants Under $50k
Grants Under $50k

Grants Under $50k
Grants Under $5th
Grants Under $50k
Grants Under $50k
Grants Under $50k

Grants Under $50k

Grants Under $50k

Grants Under $50k
Grants Under $50k

Total


$0.00
$0.00
$3,000.00

$2,378.00
$500.00
$15,000.00
$475.00
$5,000.00
$15,000.00
$15,000.00
$15,000.00
$15,000.00
$15,000.00
$15,000.00
$15,000.00
$15,000.00
$15,000.00

$15,000.00
$8,000.00
$30,000.00
$700.00
$17,500.00

$1,000.00

$1,250.00

$10,000.00
$10,000.00

Start Date

121412019
91112019
10121119

711119
711119
4?Oct-1 9

1 1-Oct-19
15-Oct-19
1 1-Oct-19
4?Oct-1 9
10-Oct-19
9-Sep-19
9?Oct-1 9
4-Oct-?i 9
93-Oct-19
7-Oct-19
8-Oct?1 9

8-Oct-19
1 1-Jun?1 9
1?Sep~19
7-Oct-19
3?Oct-1 9

1-Sep-19

26?Aug-1 9

26-Se p~1 9
26??Se p?1 9

End Date

613012020
101912019
6130120

6130120

6130120

30-Ju n-20

30-J un-20

30-J n-20

30-Jun-20

30-Jun-20

30-Jun?20

30-Jun-20

30?Jun-20

30-Jun?20

30-Jun-20

30-Jun-20

30-Jun-20

30-Jun-20
30-Jun-20
30-Jun-20
30-Jun-20
30-Jun?20

1-Jun-20

30-Jun-20

30-Jun?20
30?Jun-20

19-1211-PR9

Authority

CFO

CFO
CFO
CFO

CFO

Communications
Communications
Communications
Communications
Communications
Communications
COO
COO
C00
C00
COO
COO
COO
COO

COO

C00

C00
COO

COO

COO
COO
COO

COO

COO

COO
COO

COO

UnitlDept
Number

49131

49041
25791
46461

53061

46571
47021
46231
22341
24891
22271
13720
46291
13720
22151
22161
22231
10850
02411

02411

53101

26921
23031

53091

46141
23301
46021

46341

46361

46361
29271

47081

Unit/Dept Name

Collins Academy High School

Consuelia York Alternative HS
Daniel Webster Elementary School
Spry Community Links High School

Neal Simeon Career Academy High School

Kelly Curie High School

William Jones Coiiege Preparatory High School
Robert Lindblom Technical High School
Federico Garcia Lorca Elementary School
Helen Peirce international Studies ES

Daniel Boone Elementary School

Multiple Pathways

Charles Steinmetz College Preparatory HS

Multiple Pathways

Clara Barton Elementary School

Perkins Bass Elementary School
Alexander Graham Bell Elementary School
Counseling and Postsecondary Advising

Network 1

Network 1

Marie Sklodowska Curie Metropolitan High

School

Disney ll Magnet School
Charles Earie Elementary School

David Farragut Career Academy High School

Gage Park High School
John Garvy Elementary School
John Hancock College Preparatory High School

Gurdon Hubbard High School

Kenwood Academy High School

Kenwood Academy High School

Board Rule 7-13(i) Report - October 2019 Contracts

Vendor Number

39861

NIA
NIA
NIA

37399

31814
31814
31814
29259
98501
98501
96850
35420
12143
31814
31814
30499
12687
02411

12687

99223

96743
31814

94657

26500
30499
37159

42000

18564

NIA

Harriet Sayre Elementary Language Academy 31814

Friedrich von Steuben Metropolitan Science

HS

29483

Vendor Name

Academy For Urban School
Leadership

The Oppenheimer Family Foundation
Linnea and George Roberts

Student Voice Committee

Children First Fund The Chicago
Public School Foundation

Northwestern University
Northwestern University
Northwestern University

Chicago Opera Theater

Playworks

Playworks

Phalanx Family Services

City Lights Church

The Salvation Army

Northwestern University Settlement
Northwestern University Settlement
YMCA Camp Duncan

Daiey/AVI

Illinois Holocaust Museum

Board Of Trustees Of Community
College District No 5081 000 Wright

Navy Pier, Inc

Music And Dance Theater Chicago
Northwestern University Settlement

CCES Chicago, LLC Dba Embassy
Suites Magni?cent Mile

institute Of Technology
YMCA Camp Duncan
Depaui University

Columbus Drive LLC DBA
Fairmont Hotel Chicago

Fogo De Chao (Holdings) inc. DBA
Fogo De Chao Churrascaria
(Chicago) LLC

Seldar CM Chicago LLC DBA
Radisson Biu Aqua Hotei

Northwestern University Settlement

Northeastern University

Type of Contract

Grants Under $50k

Grants Under $50k
Grants Under $50k
Grants Under $50k

Grants Under $50k

Film Agreements
Film Agreements
Film Agreements
Film Agreements
Fiim Agreements
Film Agreements
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate

Real Estate

Real Estate

Real Estate
Real Estate

Real Estate

Real Estate
Real Estate
Real Estate

Real Estate

Real Estate

Real Estate

Real Estate

Real Estate

Total


$1,500.00

$10,000.00
$25,000.00
$1,000.00

$500.00

$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$100.00
$0.00
$0.00
$56,400.00
$44,333.33
$46,488.84
$0.00
$0.00
$14,000.00
$0.00
$0.00

$0.00

$18,000.00

$11,254.00
$0.00

$9,180.00

$3,742.00
$3,037.00
$4,500.00

$22,000.00

$12,441.00

$33,000.00
$0.00

$2,500.00

Start Date

18-Sep-19

1-Sep-19
21-Jan?19
1-Aug-19

9?May-1 9

101712019
101712019
101712019
1011612019
1012212019
1012212019
711119
9118118
711119
1019119
10118119
511 1120
1019119
10110119

10129119

10113119

611 1120
10128119

5123120

611 5120
611 0120
6112120

615120
5121120

evsizo
1114/19

91911 9

End Date

30-Jun-20

30-Jun?20
20-Jun?20
30-Jun-20

30-Jun-19

1 11812019
1 11812019
1 11812019
512012020
1012512019
1012512019
6130120
1131120
6130120
1011 1119
10120119
5113120
NIA

NIA

vadous

through
amnion

N1A

NIA
1111119



N1A
NIA
NIA

NIA

NIA

N1A

1116119

thru 11113119
va?ous
dates

19-1211-P R9

Authority

COO

COO

COO

Law

Law

Law

Law

Law

Law

Law

Law

Law

Law

Law

Law

Law

Law

Law

Law

Law
Procurement
Procurement
Procurement
Procurement
Procurement

UnitIDept
Number

47101
46251
23921
10210
10210
10210
10210
10210
10210
10210
10210
10210
10210
10210
10210
10210
10210
10210
10210
10210
41111
24191
22591
12210
11010

UnitIDept Name

Whitney Young Magnet High School
Morgan Park High School
Friedrich L. Jahn Elementary of the Fine Arts

Law Of?ce
Law Of?ce
Law Of?ce
Law Of?ce
Law Of?ce
Law Of?ce
Law Of?ce
Law Of?ce
Law Of?ce
Law Of?ce
Law Of?ce
Law Of?ce
Law Of?ce
Law Of?ce
Law Of?ce
Law Of?ce
Law Of?ce

Marine Leadership Academy at Ames
Abraham Lincoln Elementary School
Skinner North

Procurement and Contracts Of?ce

Talent Of?ce

Board Rule 7-13(i) Report - October 2019 Contracts

Vendor Number

N1A
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
NIA
1 8709
47670
47670
201 63
1 93 55

Vendor Name

Camp White Eagle

NIA

NIA

Allen, Cheryl
Gomez-Mosquere, Maria
Gross, Treasye
Hernandez, Jose

Herrada, Priscilla

Johnson, Darnella

Manney, Theresa

Murreil, Emanuel

Quinn, John

Trimble, Frank

Williams, Jordan
MorgannLopez, llana

Levitt, Tara

WEC Energy, Inc.

Charna Halpern

Sears Roebuck Co.
American Multi Cinema
Pathway Tours Inc

Hemisphere Educational Travel
Hemisphere Educational Travel
Berland Printing Co

People Admin dba Powerschool

Type of Contract

Real Estate

Real Estate

Real Estate
Settlement

Settlement

Settlement

Settlement

Settlement

Settlement

Settlement

Settlement

Settlement

Settlement

Settlement

Settlement

Settlement

Settlement

Settlement

Settlement

Settlement

Delegation of Authority
Delegation of Authority
Delegation of Authority
Delegation of Authority
Delegation of Authority

Total
CostiNTE

$7,800.00
$0.00
$0.00
$7,095.00
11,341.55
$19,102.00
$10,000.00
$16,277.40
$5,675.00
$10,000.00
$6,597.03
$37,413.88
$3,300.00
$30,000.00
$750.00
$1,000.00
$1,755.00
$6,267.00
$11,606.00
$49,230.00
$13,000.00
$115,039.00
$53,000.00
$0.00
$0.00

Start Date

1 01911 9

1 1124119
1 111 511 9
NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA

NIA
51612020
61312020
51712020
2111201 9
711120 1 8

End Date

1011 111 9
5131120
12124119
101101201 9
101101201 9
1010812019
1010212019
1010912019
912312019
101161201 9
091231201 9
101081201 9
1010412019
0912712019
1010112019
1012212019
1012312019
1012312012
1012312019
1012312019
51712020
61512020
51912020
413012020
613012021



19-1211-AR4 December 11, 2019

REPORT ON BOARD REPORT RESCISSIONS

THE GENERAL COUNSEL REPORTS THE FOLLOWING:

Extend the rescission dates contained in the following Board Reports to January 22, 2020
because the parties remain involved in good faith negotiations which are likely to result in
an agreement and the user groupls) concurs with this extension:

1. Authorize Renewal with Camelot Alt Ed?Illinois, LLC with Conditions for
Alternative Safe School Program Services.

Services: Alternative Safe School Program Services

User Group: Of?ce of Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

2. 17-1206-OP8: Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with Urban Prep Academies Inc. for a
Portion of the Englewood School Building, 6201 South Stewart Avenue.

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Of?ce of Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

3. Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with Camelot Alt Ed-Illinois, LLC for
Guggenheim School, 7141 South Morgan Street.

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Of?ce of Reai Estate

Status: In negotiations

4. Authorize the First and Second Renewal Agreements with Ef?ciency Energy LLC
for 179D Energy Consultant Services.

Services: Energy Consultant Services

User Group: Facility Operations and Maintenance

Status: In negotiations

5. 18-1205-PR2: Authorize New Agreements with Various Vendors for Nursing Services.
Services: Nursing Services

User Group: Diverse Leaners Support Services

Status: 5 of 7 agreements are fully executed; the remainder are in negotiations

6. 19- 0123- EX4: Authorize Renewal of the Chicago Mathematics and Science Academy Charter
School Agreement with Conditions.

Services: Charter School

User Group: Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation

Status: In negotiations

7. Authorize Renewal of the Foundations College Preparatory Charter School
Agreement with Conditions.

Services: Charter School

User Group: Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation

Status: In negotiations

8. Authorize Renewal of The Great Lakes Academy Charter School Agreement with
Conditions.

Services: Charter School

User Group: Of?ce of Innovation and incubation

Status: In negotiations

19-1211-AR4

9. Authorize Renewal of the Horizon Science Academy Southwest Chicago Charter
School with Conditions.
Services: Charter School
User Group: Office of Innovation and Incubation
Status: in negotiations

10. Authorize Renewal of the Namaste Charter School Agreement with Conditions.
Services: Charter School

User Group: Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation

Status: In negotiations

11. Authorize Renewal of the Noble Street Charter School Agreement with
Conditions.

Services: Charter School

User Group: Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation

Status: In negotiations

12. Authorize Renewai of the Chicago High School for the Arts Agreement with
Conditions.

Services: Charter School

User Group: Of?ce of innovation and Incubation

Status: in negotiations

13. Authorize Renewal of the Excel Academy of South Shore Agreement with
Conditions.

Services: Charter Schooi

User Group: Of?ce of innovation and incubation

Status: in negotiations

14. 19-0227-OP2: Approve License Agreement with UGP-Theater District Parking, LLC as
Licensor, by its Agent, Interpark LLC for the Use of the Parking Garage Located at 101 North
Dearborn Street for the Use of Chicago Public Schools Employees, Of?ciais, and invitees Traveiing
to and From Centrai Of?ce.

Services: Use of Parking Garage

User Group: Real Estate

Status: in negotiations

15. Authorize Agreement with Little Angels Family Daycare II, inc. to Provide
Funding for the Construction of Early Learning Chiidhood Facility to Provide Universal Pre?Schooi
Services:

Services: Funding Construction of Early Childhood Facility

User Group: Facility Operations Maintenance

Status: in negotiations

16. Authorize the Second and Final Renewal Agreements for the Pre?Quaii?cation
Status of Various Vendors to Provide Educational Technology Products.
Services: Educational Technology Products
- User Group: Teaching and Learning
Status: 40 of 52 are fully executed; the remainder are in negotiations



Extend the rescission dates contained in the following Board Reports to February 26, 2020
because the parties remain involved in good faith negotiations which are likely to result in
an agreement and the user group(s) concurs with this extension:

1. Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with Lawndale Educationai Regional
Network Charter School, inc. for A Portion of the Thorp School Building at 8914
South Buffalo Avenue. 

Services: Charter School Lease

User Group: Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

2. 16-0525-OP2: Approve Renewal of intergovernmental Agreement with City Colleges for Use of
the Building Located at 3400 N. Austin Ave.

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

3. Approve Renewal Lease Agreement with Polaris Charter Academy for Former
Morse School, 620 N. Sawyer Avenue.

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Of?ce of Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

4. Amend Board Report 01-0725-OP3: Approve Entering into a Lease Agreement
with the North Lawndale College Preparatory Charter High School for Use of Space at the George
Howland School of the Arts Located at 1616 South Spaulding Avenue.

Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Of?ce of Real Estate

Status: in negotiations

5. 17-1206-EX20: Authorize Renewal of the Chicago Tech Academy High School Agreement with
Conditions.

Services: Charter School

User Group: Of?ce of Innovation and Incubation

Status: in negotiations

6. Amend Board Report Authorize Renewal of the LEARN Charter

Schooi Agreement with Conditions.

Services: Charter School
User Group: Of?ce of Innovation and incubation
Status: In negotiations

7. 18-0926-PR5: Amend Board Report Authorize a New Agreement with E-Builder,
Inc. for Construction Management Software and Related Services.

Services: Construction Management Software

User Group: Facility Operations Maintenance

Status: in negotiations

8. 19-0227-OP1: Authorize Agreements with Asian Human Services and Gads Hill Center to
Provide Funding for Construction of Early Learning Childhood Facilities to Provide Universal Pre-
School.

Services: Universal Pre-School

User Group: Facility Operations and Maintenance

Status: 1 of 2 agreements are fully executed, other is in negotiations

.1 3

19-1211-AR4

9. Approve Entering into an Intergovernmentai Agreement with the Chicago
Housing Authority for the Exchange of Land, a Temporary Construction License Agreement for
Facilities and License for Replacement Parking for Aldridge School

Services: Exchange and License of land

User Group: Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

10. Amend Board Report 19-0123-EX13: Authorize Renewal of the Hope Learning
Academy (ilk/a Hope institute Learning Academy) Agreement with Conditions

Services: Charter School

User Group: innovation Incubation

Status: in negotiations

11. 19-O424-EX5: Amend Board Report 17-0828-EX12: Amend Board Report 
Authorize Renewal of the KIPP Chicago Charter Schools Agreement with Conditions.

Services: Charter School

User Group: innovation incubation

Status: In negotiations

12. Amend Board Report Authorize Renewai of the Excel Academy
Southwest Agreement with Conditions.

Services: Charter School

User Group: Innovation Incubation

Status: In negotiations

13. 19-0724-PR6: Authorize a New Agreement For Hosted Software and Related Services with
Managebac Inc. for Internationai Baccalaureate Managebac Software.

Services: International Baccalaureate Managebac Software

User Group: Magnet, Gifted and IB Programs

Status: In negotiations

14. 19-0724-PR19: Amend Board Report Authorize the First Renewal and Entering
into New Agreements of the Pre~Quaii?cation Status and Agreements with Various Technical
Services: Technical Services Consultants

User Group: Information Technology Services

Status: 15 of 21 agreements have been fully executed; the remainder are in negotiations

15 19? 0724? EX3: Amend Board Report 18? 0425? EXT: Amend Board Report 17? 0828? 
Amend Board Report 16-1207-EX6 Authorize Renewal of the Chicago International Charter School
Agreement with Conditions.

Services: Charter School

User Group: Innovation Incubation

Status: In negotiations

16. Amend Board Report Amend Board Report 17-1206-EX9
Authorize Renewal of the Chicago Collegiate Charter School Agreement with Conditions.
Services: Charter School

User Group: innovation Incubation

Status: In negotiations

17. Authorize Entering into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Chicago Police .
Department of the City of Chicago for School Resource Of?cer Services.
Services: School Resource Of?cer Services

User Group: Of?ce of Safety and Security

Status: in negotiations



18. Amend Board Report Approve Entering into Lease Agreement
with Shopping Center CF, LLC for Use by Peirce Elementary Pre-K
Services: Lease Agreement
User Group: Of?ce of Real Estate
Status: In negotiations

19. Approve Entering into an Intergovernmental Use Agreement with the Chicago
Park District in Connection with the Construction and Use of an Indoor Facility at Gately Park.
Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Office of Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

20. Approve Entering Into an Intergovernmental Use Agreement with the Chicago
Park District in Connection with the Construction and Use of Athletic Fields at Lincoln Park.
Services: Lease Agreement

User Group: Office of Real Estate

Status: In negotiations

21. Authorize a New Agreement with Teaching Strategies, LLC for Teaching
Strategies Gold Assessment Services.

Services: Assessment Services

User Group: Early Childhood Development City Wide

Status: in negotiations 

22. Authorize the First Renewal Agreement with Illinois Restaurant Association
Educational Foundation for Culinary Education Services.

Services: Culinary Education Services

User Group: Early College to Career

Status: ln negotiations

23. Authorize a New Agreement with ATI Holdings LLC for Athietic Training
Services.

Services: Athletic Training Services

User Group: Sports Administration

Status: In negotiations

24. Authorize the First and Second Renewal Agreements with the Concord
Consulting Group of Illinois, Inc. for Cost Estimating Services.

Services: Cost Estimating Services

User Group: Facility Operations Maintenance

Status: In negotiations

25. Authorize the Renewal of the intergovernmental Agreement with City of
Chicago, Department of Public Health, for Inspection, Re?inspection, Training and Consulting
Services.

Services: inspection, Re?Inspection, Training and Consulting Services

User Group: Nutrition Support Services

Status: in negotiations

26. Authorize the Second and Final Renewal Agreement with Pro Biz Products
LLC. For the Purchase of School, Gym, and Security Uniforms.

Services: Purchase of School, and Security Uniforms

User Group: Procurement and Contracts Of?ce

Status: in negotiations

19-1211-AR4

27. Approve Entering into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of
Chicago Department of Fleet and Facility Management for the Purchase of Fuel and Ancillary
Liquids.

Services: Purchase of Fuel and Ancillary Liquids

User Group: Student Transportation

Status: In negotiations

Rescind the following Board Reports in part or'm full for failure to enter into an agreement
with the Board, after re ated attempts, and the user groups have been advised of such
rescission:

 
  

 

 

riarty, Cieneral Catnsei

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(5)

(7)

(8)

19-1211-MO1
December 11, 2019

MOTION TO HOLD A CLOSED SESSION

I MOVE that the Board hold a closed session to consider the following subjects:

information, regarding appointment, employment, compensation discipline, performance, or
dismissal of employees or legal counsel for the public body pursuant to Section of the Open
Meetings Act;

collective negotiating matters between the public body and its employees or their representatives,
or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or more classes of employees pursuant to
Section of the Open Meetings Act;

the purchase or lease of real property for the use of the Board pursuant to Section of the
Open Meetings Act;

the setting of a price for the sale or lease of real property owned by the Board pursuant to Section
of the Open Meetings Act;

security procedures and the use of personnel and equipment to respond to an actual, a threatened,
or a reasonably potential danger to the safety of employees, students, staff, the public, or public
property pursuant to Section of the Open Meetings Act;

matters relating to individual students pursuant to Section 2(c)(10) of the Open Meetings Act;
pending litigation and litigation which is probable or imminent involving the Board pursuant to
Section 2(c)(11) of the Open Meetings Act; and

discussion of closed session minutes pursuant to Section 2(c)(21) of the Open Meetings Act.

